there isn't any one thing that's
different when you're talking about
issues with men versus women but there
are a whole lot of little things that
add up to an enormous difference
uh when you're talking about the
psychological emotional intellectual
development of men and women the path
that leads toward the life of the mind
and the path that leads so many people
away from the life of the mind you know
the decisions you've got to make that'll
lead to leading a meaningful life versus
a meaningless one
or that can end up with your life
frankly being in ruins because the
stakes are very high
i mean i'd say the light motif that
comes up again and again when you're
reflecting on the difference between
being a woman and being a man in these
situations is just i know it's an
overused phrase
but it is the bigotry of low
expectations
that it's so rare for people to say to
women including their own parents
including their own brothers and sisters
like including their school teachers
including their boss at work it's so
rare to say to women
man up
it's so rare to say this is on you you
got to reach a higher standard to really
you know have this kind of imposition
the expectation of excellence of a woman
giving it 110 percent i mentioned this
controversy to you a couple days ago
mostly came up in passing and some some
other conversation
we had a controversy here in canada
more than 10 years ago now where there
was a woman
running for parliament
so she was a candidate in the federal
parliamentary relations these are
national elections now this controversy
it partly involved people's changing
attitudes towards the internet and
privacy because a group of journalists
had gone around and basically gathered
together all of the evidence
of people just having posted crap on
facebook and twitter and it was mostly
facebook but they'd aggregated together
the data from these different candidates
in different elections and they'd come
up with some really embarrassing
evidence
of just how stupid they were so this
woman
she's not a kid she's not a teenager
she's a fully grown woman she's
university educated she's standing in
elections at the highest level
and she had made a series
of
mind-bogglingly stupid statements about
the holocaust
like when you're just looking at the
statements or they're her pasting on her
own facebook
they're not anti-semitic
they're not neo-nazi
and she's a left-wing person by the way
you're just looking at you like
what
like
what are you saying about concentration
camps like
why it was just
boggling
and what she said in her defense so
naturally this was only after
you know
the mainstream press caught on to this
bizarre news story what she said was
that she had never heard of the
holocaust before that when she made
those comments on facebook
she she had no idea anything like this
right
and and and people's attitudes
you know before during her education
during her upbringing during the vetting
process of her becoming a candidate like
how is it that all these other people
around her can be aware of how ignorant
a person she is and still put her into
an elite leadership role in in politics
i think it has everything to do with
being a woman and those problems they
get worse
when you're a good-looking woman now i
was saying something similar to you a
couple days ago i put up a youtube video
about izzy davis right now if you don't
know who izzy davis is
she's deleted her youtube channel she's
deleted uh basically all of her social
media to my to my knowledge but she used
to be a famous person and she is a
conventionally attractive blonde
has a history of eating disorders blah
blah blah has a history of pool dancing
too to be fair so she's someone who got
slim and fit enough she's been a gym a
fitness instructor
and a pole dancer
and her university education
dealt with
chemistry
biology
nutritional science
and at the end of that she's completed
her university education at an elite
university in the united states of
america uh university of berkeley
california right this is berkeley
um
anyway
and you know what she's saying is so
mind-bogglingly stupid it's showing a
kind of fundamental illiteracy in the
sciences and lack of familiarity with
you know the real basics of chemistry
biology nutrition of exactly her field
exactly
and again like i haven't met her
professors i haven't been in the
classroom with her but i've been in a
lot of classrooms with a lot of people
i've been in a lot of classrooms where
the professor's attitude towards
especially a good-looking white female
is totally different from their attitude
towards an ugly male a not especially if
you're a tall black self-confident male
the way the professor treats you
like how for how many years did this
woman just get kind of waved and nodded
through her education yes yes yes that's
good good for you dear like kind of pat
on the head encouragement and nobody
really challenging her nobody really
holding her to a higher standard and
like let's be honest about how it works
education nobody kind of contradicting
her stopping her and jumping down the
throat saying no
no why did you no you you the fact that
you said this whether verbally or on
your test this shows that you don't
really know what you're talking about
this shows there's something fundamental
you know it can be quite nasty
confronting people in a way that draws
out their ignorance and draws out what
it is they still need to learn or what
they've gotten wrong or that really puts
them in check and says look the fact
that you managed to scrape through the
last few exams you may have gotten a c
minus but you may have gotten an a plus
but you you really don't understand the
fundamentals here you're not developing
the competence
in our culture and in every culture i'm
familiar with we have this huge problem
of women being held to lower standards
and it has a cumulative effect like when
you look at people in grade three grade
four grade five grade six maybe the boys
and girls aren't so different when
you're getting up to high school and
university age the subtle way in which
women are treated different is very
different and then we make this
transition
so don't worry i'm gonna let melissa
take over the microphone here at the no
[ __ ] let's say but then we make this
transition where women the vast majority
of women are in a situation where they
have the option
of letting men
solve all their problems in life letting
some man fall in love with you and
provide you with a home and an income
and shelter and everything else of
letting some man you know you give up a
lot in exchange but letting some man be
in charge letting some man pay your
bills and of course today it's very easy
to visualize because of the internet but
whether you become a stripper or uh you
know you do
cam whoring you do some kind of neutron
internet that's a different way of
suddenly having men and male sexual
attention come into your life and solve
all your problems for you now you don't
think about career and earning money and
education in the same way because men
come to your life but i'm just being
clear that can be one relationship with
one man you can just get yourself one
wealthy boyfriend or one wealthy husband
he can't even be a poor guy he was a
straight job and and works hard
if you're a you know you'd be amazed how
much money whether in england or the
united states of america how much money
you make as a plumber just a guy who's
been to trade school become an
electrician or become a plumber
pipefitter like all kinds of like all
kinds of jobs for men that don't require
university education being uh being a
coal miner working in a mine working we
just kind of working as a longshoreman
working at the docks is over a hundred
thousand dollars a year yeah but anyway
a man who has no education and no no
elite position job he's earning more
than a hundred thousand he has more than
enough money to take some some woman and
it's it's not just good-looking women
i've known very homely frankly ugly
women who are still in this position
where you let some man
you know solve all your problems for you
and now you're not holding yourself
those things you're not asking those
questions okay so yeah so that's what we
made a video already i mean most of you
were you were a part of that we made a
video talking about advice for young men
yeah right on the other side of the
camera yeah yeah no but i feel you were
you were suddenly part of that and i
thought we were going to talk more about
sex in that video than we did it's all
right it was already a long video we had
a lot to say and this is a video by
contrast that's talking about the same
issues with with women yeah and i think
we agree in like a subtle and pervasive
way with women
it's all on a higher level of difficulty
precisely because
other people are making it easier for
you
okay all right i feel like in that
introduction there was a lot covered so
we've been talking for about nine
minutes and yeah uh
really emotionally exhausting nine
minutes on camera
completely you know completely
overwhelming stifling nine minutes there
you go
okay yeah so yeah of course i want you
and foreign
uh so yeah there were a lot of different
issues discussed there but your
perspective on
women in education that there are lower
standards i
have talked to you quite a bit about
this off camera like we we've discussed
this in various contexts so it's not
that i um 100 agree with you or that my
experience
shows the exact same thing or that i
learned the exact same thing through my
experience in education so i'm can you
give me an example where like you from
your experience when you were in class
and you felt like there was a real
direct difference between how a woman
was treated so i i i went to more than
one high school and more than one
university
but you know one of my high schools a
very large percentage of the students
were black so i would say minimum 30
percent of the students remember maybe
in any given year it's 30 40 it would it
was not 50 it was not uh half black was
within canada that's very unusual most
of canada black people are a small
minority
anyway so this high school any given
year 30 40 people were black and yes
true to the stereotype i think we had
the best basketball team in the city
it was i remember finding people in my
own family uh who were white in case you
didn't know um white people one van
would say oh uh are you on the
basketball team and did you try it for
the basketball team and i was like right
you're tall
no no in my at my high school it was all
black guys on the basketball team and
stuff so within canada this is this is
very unusual but yeah it was very
striking to me i saw many examples of
this
how the teachers it's my last year of
high school high school was five years
not four years in canada at that time
with a different system so this is the
fifth year of high school this is kids
who are university age by today's
standards right
and the way the teacher would speak to a
female student was very different from a
male student and i've got to say
especially when it was a black female
student
okay so i'll give you an example there
was a black uh student and she you know
she fancied herself a bit of a radical
like if if we were if this had happened
in 2021 she would be a young black woman
involved with black lives matter that
that type of cause so the the black
radical dissident causes of the day sure
which at that time i mean at the time
you know krs-1 was on the radio it
wasn't such a popping time for black
again you know anyway this is long
enough ago that we're not talking about
the black panthers we're not talking
about blm either but anyway yeah but she
was a young black woman who had some
uh political pretensions
and
she gave a
it was supposed so i think each of us
were assigned to give a presentation on
a different university major something
you could major in in university
and
i think we were given them randomly it
was something like that like kind of
spun a wheel or something everybody got
a different thing they had to research
and talk about the this major or
whatever and the one she was given
was
classics
so if you don't know in english as a
university major
classics means
greek and latin
okay
and she that's basically what it means
to simplify it means studying ancient
ancient greek latin and the associated
literature and history and politics
right
and she gave this so this young black
woman gave this completely surreal
lecture
where she was like talking about african
culture and and growing up black and
stuff and the meaning of the word
classics and like classic rap songs
oh really yeah
but she knew it was supposed to be about
college majors uh-huh okay it was like
you know
and
you know that no you meant she was not
the only person who in this way like
fundamentally misunderstood the
assignment which is like no that's like
no do it again like you know which is
what you basically need to be told and
when other people's true demons they
were told like no that's not the meaning
of this word that's you know what i mean
okay and i i remember it's it's an
extreme example the whole response of
the professor was like oh
oh oh good for you oh you you poor dear
well you know what you don't realize is
that the word classic has more than it
was this
you know it was the perfect example of
the bigotry of
low expectations okay you know you're
not willing to say to this person no do
it again try harder
give me more give me a second you know
yeah it was just good for you
i'm so happy you showed up here's your
prize because you ran the race at all
really yeah yeah yeah yeah and
so this is a female teacher and a female
student
um i do know that you know part of the
problem is just well a lot of young
women break down crying
yeah you know
men do too of course but like where the
teacher they may have experience with
that they don't want to confront someone
they don't want to confront a young one
whether it's a male teacher or a female
teacher just say no like you failed this
is bad you have to step it up you have
to be at a higher level you have to do
this again you know what i mean
um okay okay give you one more because
it's really brief and it's really
surreal
um i think i think i didn't say this on
youtube people think of this you there
was a very good looking young woman she
was really strikingly good looking in in
my high school she was white
and so this is a similar kind of
assignment everyone was given everyone
was given a different founder of a
religion to do a report on somebody got
the buddha somebody got jesus and she
got muhammad
and she did the whole presentation not
knowing the difference between muhammad
and muhammad ali
i am not joking and and everyone like
the other students that was also we had
several black people we had several
black people in the audience but like oh
my gosh like and even i like i wasn't
even no like but i remember i said it
and like other people in class were like
nodding and the teacher was like no they
were like okay with me i was like no no
muhammad ali
and muhammad the prophet are two
separate people it's like
oh my god like everyone in class is like
what like what is this you know and
again you know again if if a male
student or like a tall self-confident
black male student i was a tall
self-confident white student if you had
had done this you could imagine like the
teacher might lay into you did you what
are you [ __ ] what the [ __ ] is wrong
with are you completely screwed no no
and the whole response from the teacher
was like well you know
it's confusing when two different people
in history have the same name
um like okay 100
pandering encouraging
good for you
you tried your best you get an a-min
like okay
so i know these are extreme
but what i'm saying is like in a much
more subtle way
uh it's i see that going on all the time
okay at all levels inclu including often
enough in the workplace compared to kind
of what kind of work sure yeah so i'm
trying to think of good examples from my
experience in high school but i can't
come up with something as as blatant as
that
because those are those are pretty
striking examples where there were lower
expectations for women
lower expectations for people who are
non-white um right yeah and i agree with
you that is a problem like we should we
should have the same standards for
the assignments that are given to
different
uh whatever gender and whatever race so
right so look you know women's sport is
less competitive than men's sport
women's prison
is less scary than men's prison women in
the military are treated different from
like it's everything you know like
that's that's what's scary and like by
the way i think the exceptions prove the
rule
i think the reason why there's so much
whining
about how hard it is to be in the
fashion industry whether you're a
fashion model or a designer is that
that's like the one industry where it's
only women and gay men like 99 percent
of people are either women or gay men
and where people are really brutal with
each other the same way straight men are
brutal with other straight men was like
oh no you know like this purse isn't
good enough like you know if you want
this to be in the show you know what i
mean or it's worth where it's on that
level yeah all right so before we
started recording this uh you gave a
notice for about an hour yeah and i was
just you know doing oh take it whatever
direction you want to take it yeah i
know i'm just setting the stage yeah
yeah yeah um
so i was getting some things
some things done in the kitchen and uh
beforehand and i just thought of
something i would like to say
um you see how badly made this cup is
this this is the bigotry of low
expectations look at how badly come on
seriously
i don't know who designed that
but anyway um
i'll bet you money it was a woman
so i have a lot of things that i
why okay i have a lot of things that i
would like to talk about but just
because you talked about um breaking
down crying uh this this issue uh this
is something that you mentioned in your
video about men
advice for young men too
um and
you know i think it's just worth telling
because i myself was a young woman once
uh
i myself was 18 years old i myself was
19 years old and i will never get
another chance to be 18 years old or 19.
we're kind of celebrating melissa
becoming middle aged i know you guys
think she's a teenager but she's not and
we're going i don't think anybody thinks
i'm a teenager um
anyway
uh yeah so
um i think it's worth telling this story
even though it might be slightly
embarrassing for me to recount and i
hadn't thought about this at all
beforehand so i was just i was just
contrasting it so like i have some
things written down but just you you
bring out the breaking down crying
so i had a job when i was in university
it was um
i think i was 20 years old when i had
this job and my boss was a
she uh was overweight uh and she was a
black woman she had a lot of uh charisma
you know she was she was just an
interesting person to to spend time or
spend time around like you know she was
she was um
uh
she was a character
and
she didn't really
live by the same standard uh these low
expectations for women yeah i noticed
that um so one example that happened is
i didn't i didn't i wasn't aware of my
doing this
but she noticed that i wasn't coming
into work like i would come into work at
the last second like i would walk in
right when it was about to be 8 am yeah
and
her view on it was that i should be
coming into into the office like 10
minutes early i should be like getting
prepared and be ready for the day at
like 9 00 am or sorry 8 am right
and she one day i came into work and she
took me aside and she just you know in a
column way said you know come to my
office i want to talk to you so this was
a workplace situation where i was being
called out for something that i had done
wrong
and uh
i i could just feel like my heart rate
going up and and i just i've always had
this issue with authority with authority
figures and somebody like trying to
correct my behavior and stuff uh and i
do think this is something that is
particularly difficult for women to deal
with maybe because they don't have as
much experience with it
because of this sure this different
standards these different uh low
expectations uh so
yeah she just you know she didn't say it
in a rude way or anything but she was
she was explaining to me like you know
you need to come into work earlier i've
noticed this have you noticed that every
day this week you've come in like right
before 8 am rather than coming in like
10 minutes before
and uh yeah i i started crying like it
was just something that i couldn't help
like i really didn't want to and it was
just the two of you alone in her office
yeah it was just me and her alum in her
office
and yeah so i i
uh i regret that that's how i handle it
at that stage you know 20 years old
you're not you're not a kid um but still
that was that was my level of maturity
at that at that stage my ability to
handle
inter
interpersonal conflicts workplace
conflicts so yeah i would say that's a
that's a big
that was a big issue for me i'm not
saying all women but i do think it's uh
something that
is
something that we need to learn from i
remember an anecdote like that from a
guy it's not worth telling the whole
story you guys know i've read a bit
about the history of the cia
he was a guy who worked more with the
fbi than the cia but he did both
and he complained that when they let
women into the fbi
and again i think women in some sense
have always been involved in the cia but
they started having women in higher
positions yeah that he said there was
this huge change where people would
break down crying in meetings people
would scream in meetings where he said
like he was an old enough guy he
remembered when it was yeah you remember
when it was all men and when it was all
white men because you know there was a
time when there were no black people
like it was openly racist yeah you know
society and um
you know look it's just interesting i
think obviously i'm not saying i think
we should have an all-male workplace i
don't believe that but i remember him
saying you can imagine in that kind of
job whether it's the fbi or the ca there
were probably a lot of meetings where
there's
you know there's somebody got shot in
the head because of you or something you
know like something really bad you made
the wrong decision and now fred is dead
you know i mean whatever
you know people really break down we
women so that's the end of this but the
point was women were breaking down
weeping in a way that guys weren't
before okay and how the whole office
yeah yeah yeah so i mean it depends what
kind of work you're in right
yeah but i just think too like looking
back at that situation at that story
where
it's
it's not even when i didn't have the
threat of being fired or something it
was just the the confrontation that i
was not able to like to deal with um
like that
if it had been a young man a young white
man or a young man with a different race
you know like how would the expectations
be different for them right and yeah
that that is something that um i i just
didn't think about at that time i was i
was so like
when you're young like you're so in your
own
your mind you're you're in your own
you're selfish you know um you're not
thinking of how you're going to be
perceived by other people
yeah i just mentioned i have told
melissa this story before but i think
it's never been told on on camera so my
ex-girlfriend from a million years ago
my my blonde ex-girlfriend she was going
to university
her major i think ended up just being
english literature
maybe i think she did combined women's
studies english literature yeah but
anyway that that kind of thing
and you know
she told me this anecdote because i was
complaining about the way evaluation and
grading is structured in universities
where there's just no like if i pour out
my heart and soul to research and write
this paper and then it just disappears
into the system and you get you get a
number by email you find out what grade
you got there's no meaningful learning
from you know whatever yeah and um
she gave me an example where she was in
one of these big lecture theater classes
there were like 400 students in the
class with university of toronto we had
huge classes there's one professor and
hundreds of students in a big lecture
theater and she just decided so in case
you hadn't guessed she is a
good-looking blonde
and she's a cute blonde rather than like
a threatening blonde you know
but she's she was a that age she was a
very attractive young woman and nobody
said [ __ ] to her and nobody said tire
stanza really you know and she decided
to completely disregard the stated
requirements for like the final essay
for this course the essay that's worth
like 50 year grade which is also normal
at university of toronto and instead of
you know everyone's typing on a computer
and printing out an essay for so many
pages instead she bought one big piece
of like art paper
so i know some kind of fancy you know
colored paper and she got out her
calligraphy pens and she used like
colored pens and did like decoration
stuff in the border and she wrote this
like
thought poem or some [ __ ] yeah like you
know she did this like artistic response
to like the book that they were assigned
to read
yeah yeah yeah with like pretty pictures
and like four different colors of pens
using chili
so she's telling me this anecdote
and again like she's telling under the
heading of my saying how the evaluation
system is is [ __ ] up with universities
and she's like and she just heard
nothing back she was like when she
handed it to like the ta to hand there's
like you know they made a funny
expression and then she got whatever she
got in a minus just like she gets a
grade backwards completely disregarding
these times and what i said to him
without without missing a beat i didn't
think about it i didn't like come back
to her a week later at the moment seeing
their listener tell this story where she
describes this [ __ ] arts and crafts
thing she did for like a 400 level
english lit class at a universe
university level
and i said to her
how do you think your professor would
have spoken to you if you were a six
foot tall black male
she was devastated by this she had never
thought about it and it's way beyond
white privilege and it's way beyond
female privilege or pretty girl
privilege it's like
your instructor in this course so
totally [ __ ] trivializes you as a
human being they hold you to such low
standards that no one is taking you
aside and saying look if you can't
perform at this level like if you can't
write an essay that meets these
standards these specifications but then
like dude you can't do this job like you
know i mean the same what if you're
talking about training someone to be a
nurse trains them to be a doctor talking
about izzy davis getting a degree in
nutrition and chemistry and biology like
someone isn't taking you aside and
saying look like i don't care how many
pretty colored pens you used or how
creative you were something like i'm not
here to gas you up kid you [ __ ] up
like you're falling way short of the
minimum standards you're not showing
confidence yeah just look i'm sorry but
if you were a tall scary looking black
dude and again people i mean then and
now people responded to me primarily as
a tall scary looking dude people were
scared of me in toronto not that i'm
that scary it's that they're that
shelter seriously people were afraid of
uh growing up in toronto which is [ __ ]
up but anyway um people found me really
imposing and intimidating but you know
if i if i'd done some [ __ ] like that the
professor is going to say look like
this is what like this is the kind of
confidence i'm supposed to be training
you to have yeah and if you're not
developing that or if you're not moving
up that's like
do you want me to fail you like do you
want to do the assignment again like
what do you want me to do you've put me
in a position as a professor like this
what you know
so yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah okay you
know uh yeah i mean these are these are
these are the questions yeah
anyway look i do have other i do have
other examples but you know part of part
of the significance of the standard i'm
saying is my own girlfriend's response
to it when i challenged her that way
that was not the only challenge she had
a lot of expectations about about
society and politics and [ __ ] like she
expected to walk into a room and be
treated like a princess everywhere she
went and especially at that age and
looking the way she did i'm sorry she
was a very attractive woman that's why i
put up with her i'm sure she's a
terrible girlfriend terrible
relationship i regret it this is really
the wrong i really i really regret it
but anyway you know she but she was a
very good looking uh young woman and
it's like look what if you walk like
whether we're talking about like city
hall or talking to a stranger on the
street or talking into a business like
what if you were a tall black male yeah
and you should hold yourself to that
standard like you should be conducting
yourself in a way where you would be
respected if you were a tall black male
like i'm earning my professor's respect
or i'm i'm i'm pushing respect at city
hall i'm whatever it is i'm doing you
know i'm not leaning on this privilege
and she had been she'd been totally
unaware of it she'd been really
sleepwalking through your life that way
uh not thinking about the sense of which
that shape right okay so yeah i'm not
not trying to not
picture not trying to be nitpicky i
didn't know your ex-girlfriend of course
yeah you know i'm going based off of
your stories about her so
but um she does not have her own youtube
channel
but yeah i i you know i i hazard
i i just i want to i'm not trying to
like protect her or something but like
when you say that she was uh
she was expecting everybody to treat her
like a princess or something right like
i don't even think a lot of people have
that level of awareness agreed agreed
it's not that they have the expectation
it's just that's what they've
experienced in their life and they
haven't had someone saying
no you should have the same expectations
yeah you should have the same behavior
or no one even saying step it up try
harder
right so um yes i do think that this is
an issue and uh i don't know if this is
something that is
more of a problem for women or if it's
more of a problem like it okay
what i want to say is uh this
wanting to
uh this ideal of perfection right i
don't know if if this is always the case
with men and women but i really do feel
like men are more okay with their being
like
errors and what they're being like
straight up like like just making
mistakes and learning from them i feel
like men are like i don't know if it's
their experience right from like having
the process of older it's not biology no
i know but like
having older men like
critique them older than saying like no
you need to do better or something like
saying you say women don't have that and
therefore like they don't get used to
that process of making mistakes and
learning from those mistakes and like
and and building up themselves that way
40 people in the audience guys take a
second to hit thumbs up more people will
join the live stream while it's going
give you a thumbs up and then afterwards
when this is a video more people will
see the video so if you think this is a
worthwhile discussion take a second hit
thumbs up if you change your mind later
you can undo the thumbs up and hit
thumbs down but you know
um
yeah that'd be great um
because
yeah it's it's more interesting when you
get more people in the audience and so
on so yeah um yeah i was just going to
say you you know this is something that
i've had to get used to um and and
actually be okay with making mistakes
and accepting when when i'm i don't know
certain things or um
accepting that like actually reflecting
on what i've been doing like there have
been times in our relationship when
you've been like you know
yeah like you haven't been doing this or
that like what's going on like you know
step it up like you are not realizing
that this is that this is happening
you're not you're not holding yourself
to any kind of standard at all yeah high
or low you're not real think about right
yeah yeah and um
yeah well look i've broken down crying
hundreds of times in this relationship
because of that sure that exact
situation i'm just like why are you
calling me out on this like why can't
you just give me a break or something
but i know like that but it's not just
you broke down crying in response to
problems with baking school oh yeah you
were basically breaking
you know you've yeah you've you've had
these stereotypical feminine trait of
breaking down crying absolutely
you know um yes
in response to the difference but look i
i don't believe this is a biological
difference in men and women i think it's
a
issue of culture or an experience
expectation stuff
and one of the most telling
demonstrations of this is to look at how
effeminate gay men are treated
so you can be in all kinds of situations
including like when i was involved in
the theater
i've i've never been involved in the
fashion industry but i think within
university class classrooms if there is
a guy but he really actively cultivates
that persona he's a gay man and he talks
in an effeminate way because some gay
men are butch you know some don't have
that person but effeminate gay men
there's a similar thing that goes on
where nobody's holding the standard
nobody's taking them seriously
and that can include even when they're
doing things that are really wrong or
abusive or something they're crossing a
line it's like oh nobody takes it
seriously
why
because he's an effeminate man and
you're not you know you're not holding
the account the way you would a straight
man and maybe just fundamentally you
don't perceive him as a threat the way
he was dreaming you don't perceive what
he's doing as consequential the same way
so i'm just saying a lot of the same
trivialization and i feel denigration
and holding people low standards that
happens with effeminate with you know
out effeminate gay men also yeah i think
you can see that in the workplace and
you can see that in university
and they and again breaking down weeping
and everything else so i think that
gives you an interesting mirror
interesting point of comparison to
sometimes ask how would this be
different
uh for an effeminate gay man and often
it's shockingly the same with the kind
of low expectations
okay i'm going to try to switch topics
here although i i
says that sounds horrific i'm black and
was always told to work harder than my
peers because people in england wouldn't
take me seriously or something uh my
teachers were
lovely though
um so look i think you know for women
generally those days are gone
uh
really margaret thatcher's generation
was the generation where women were told
if you want to be taken seriously you
have to be harder than a man you have to
be harder working but i do also just
mean harder if to be tougher than a fan
you know you have to really earn it you
have to earn it more than any man there
was a certain generation that went
through that
and
you know i think we have to be honest
too about the fact that the vast
majority of women they can't really be
encouraged to work hard whether
academically or intellectual otherwise
with the expectation that there is any
good employment or reward coming for
that effort like most of these things if
you do it you have to be motivated just
by wanting to cultivate your own mind or
cultivate your own characters the vast
majority of both men and women are not
going to do a job any better than being
a waitress you know waiter or waitress
or what have you the vast majority of us
go on to jobs
to use jordan peterson's idiom to we go
on to do jobs not careers you know
um
but you know do you want to be a
waitress who's just a waitress or do you
want to be a waitress who's you know
really taken seriously as an
intellectual in some field you know
who's really you know i've
you know really really developed herself
you know this or that way now there are
a lot of guys who take this seriously i
mean i know it's like the buddha jokes
whether it's in an army unit or working
on an oil rig there's some you know
there's some guy who's got his you know
his books with him and stuff there's
some guy who's saying he wants to be a
screenwriter in hollywood or he has some
dream or he's reading philosophy he's
reading friedrich nietzsche or
schopenhauer or something you know like
you meet guys who have intellectual
potent pretensions and aspirations and
ambitions above and beyond the jobs
they've got but ever so this is just a
response to um
this comment
women who take the
the attitude that they have to work
harder because they're women or
specifically they're black women like
you won't be taken seriously unless you
work 10 times harder i've got it so i
feel that's really the margaret thatcher
generation and that was a time when most
women who went to education they only
have like two paths open them it's like
oh do you want to become a schoolteacher
you want to become a nurse yeah and
there were no other
no other career paths open them for my
generation women were told all career
paths are open to you everything's open
to you yes and everything is easy and
you're equal without having to earn it
you know what i mean you're you're equal
i'm saying yes we are we are a slightly
different generation but from my
experience we have a 14-year age gap
yeah so when i was in school definitely
it was any career path would be open to
women it doesn't matter and there was a
lot of encouragement for women to be
independent and
you know within my own family like that
i should focus on my career that i
should figure out a way for my myself to
be financially independent you know um
so you know i i don't
i don't know from from my experience you
know i admit like i i might have some
bias
in this way
given my
just
i don't know my background my race my
gender and stuff you know that like i
didn't feel that because i was a woman
that i wouldn't be taken seriously right
i felt like it was the same like if i
was to become an engineer that that
would i would be on this right but you
see there's there's there's a there's a
way to take positive motivation out of
that which is like okay i've gotta
try harder i better work
and
yeah you know i mean
i i do think my generation was already
after that was over and when just i
don't think anyone was trying i grew up
with uh it's the kurt cobain generation
it's the nirvana general oh
generally the whole culture was into
nobody working hard nobody having any
aspirations nobody giving 110 you know
what i mean so yeah but including women
so so that that influenced men too
but yeah yeah yeah the era of try harder
and prove your worth that was that was
out of style okay i have a great thing
that just came to mind so i was thinking
of changing the topic but speaking of
margaret thatcher this is just in
relation to
this topic of female politicians of
being taken seriously just the other day
we were watching the news do you
remember this there was a news story
from a
well-known politician who was running
for president at one point do you
remember her she has been involved with
conflicts because of her nationality her
race her race so uh elizabeth warren oh
yeah she
i thought you're going to talk about
camel harris no elizabeth warren was
being interviewed
and she was being interviewed about her
newest children's story that she had put
up oh
oh the bigotry of low expectations
you're right i think it's a real
that
oh the the expectations applied to
elizabeth warren that is a great example
that as opposed to how tough they would
be interviewing a man or interviewing a
black man or something who had a similar
record whoa you're right
just the type of the kind of
conversation that she was having about
her book uh it was all good for you yes
yes
yes yes just
that would not be the kind of i i want
to find
specific examples but just talking about
like
uh how much she loved meeting
people's dogs when she was on the
campaign trail and like
this kind of
yes really yeah yeah
like what is this conversation about um
yeah there's a sort of there's a sort of
mutual trivialization going on like for
the interviewer like i'm trivializing
you you're
trivializing me we're trivializing this
political context yes and like there's
no sense of like dude you just lived
through
20 years of failure in afghanistan it's
on you what the [ __ ] dude you just lived
through 20 years of us not solving the
problem with global warming and so
you're like no let alone dude you lied
about your ethnicity and portrayed
yourself as an indigenous american for
decades and like yeah yeah which is
really really messed up no no no sense
of confrontation or keeping a nun yeah
yeah yeah this is you know anyway you
made up complete [ __ ] against bernie
sanders you know
that was really where she derailed her
campaign you know you went up yeah no so
yeah yeah i do think it really is the
case now that women can get in politics
and they can be taken seriously if they
behave in a serious way and they
actually try to make changes in the
world and i'm glad that i'm living like
of all the times to be born in the
history of human civilization like
now is the best time in terms of women
actually being able to have
representation in government and
run for office you know it's a wonderful
thing and i i
i do despise that i do despise that like
female politicians like okay it is true
that uh the president can be
filmed reading a children's story to uh
an audience of school children or
something but like
the conversation is never about
it's never this this
ah
anyway uh yeah
yeah so yeah this is kind of leading to
a topic that i want to say let's be
clear so in english we say talking down
to someone but it's not really talking
down to women it's assuming that you
don't have to challenge them but you
don't have to raise a standard that
there's nothing for them to live up to
you know it's different the low
expectations thing is different from
talking down to someone yeah that's
that's all i'd say yeah but that's
profound and it goes on for women it
starts in childhood yeah you know i mean
oh good for you and they are just not
being talked to now look you know um
just just keeping it real you know so
look i've known different girls who've
been through this from different
different perspectives
but you know i've known girls who were
okay let's start with the male example
and also the females there are boys who
say they want to be a basketball player
and people say to them straight up you
are never going to be a basketball
player you're five foot two
you know
and whatever if they say they want to
play football right away they're told
well you're not big enough to be a
linebacker but you can be a tight end or
something like they're told what
position they can play they want to play
baseball it's like well look you don't
have what it takes to play this position
but you can be shortstop like you know
just their physical characteristics you
know whether or not they're big enough
tall enough strong enough and and then
getting into their reflexes what they
can and can't do
and what i see across the board with
women
are there exceptions hey there are four
billion exceptions in this world you
know sure there are exceptions you know
what i see with women is women being
told again and again you can do anything
you want to do you're wonderful even to
the point of absurdity of telling women
they can do sports they can't do that
telling women that they can be a
supermodel when they they're just not
tall enough they can't be a runway model
they're not the right size and shape you
know what i mean really like you see
that with the the beauty discourse yes
that is one other topic that i thought
of talking about just this this reality
that uh men get comfortable with at a
young or maybe they're maybe they still
have issues with it but like men have to
get comfortable at a young age with
being shorter than other men yes
with having a build that will never look
like other men like right but look sorry
but i just want because i was setting up
just a transition to the intellectual
side of it yeah i remember reading a
[ __ ] master's degree thesis if it
wasn't a master's view thesis it was a
phd thesis written by a woman a female
student at university of toronto
and i was just saying to my colleagues
like if you or i had written this like
don't you think we would have been
laughed out of the room and like quite
possibly we wouldn't have been given
directions to rewrite it to start again
because normally you don't just fail
with graduate state within their
patients don't you think we'd be giving
this back say look you've got to go back
to the drawing board you've got every
word where like you you know but my
point is i think this does carry on
that's that's what i've seen including
at cambridge and oxford including at
elite universities university of toronto
is supposed to be elite where people are
just this good for you you tried your
best attitude and not saying like no
like either you understood what this
said in sanskrit or you didn't either
you did the work or you didn't either
this is at a standard of excellence
where it's real scholarship or it's not
you know and again that obviously that
that applies to women in politics uh
like your example elizabeth warren and
so on and so forth you know is anyone
holding elizabeth warren to the same
standards they would hold bernie sanders
too frankly you know yeah anyone else on
the on the talk yeah yeah sorry take
away everyone
but yeah i'm just i'm just saying the
physical thing matters the physical
thing but i am just talking about it as
prefiguring and being easier to see
example of what goes on intellectually
yes so okay maybe the physical thing is
the topic that we can get to later on
but it is something that i was thinking
now yeah okay well just that what i was
saying earlier is that i do feel like
at a younger age maybe it's because of
this team sports thing that that men get
comfortable with
the fact that oh well maybe i will never
succeed in basketball because i'm i'm
just not tall enough you know to
actually compete on the basketball court
you have to be a certain height
whereas women are
i think deeply uncomfortable with their
bodies and we hear this all the time in
the mainstream media uh because of these
differences and build and the
differences and uh where you know just
things like where things deposit in your
body like just just the shape of your
body and things like yes i i do think
that uh this this is a difference
between uh
men and women and and what they have to
uh
accept about themselves um
okay yes so there's something here that
overlaps with you're saying okay so
junebug says yeah men will say anything
to sleep with a woman
uh look so you know yeah women do live
with flattery they do live with
seduction but i think you're missing the
point junebug
because there's a question about
um
what men will say
just to avoid dealing with [ __ ] from
women
what women will say
just to avoid dealing with [ __ ]
women in the workplace in the school do
you see what i'm saying like so coming
back to even the examples we already
used before so i have this school
teacher and there's this very beautiful
very stupid girl who's just done this
presentation where she is unaware that
muhammad ali the boxer in the 20th
century is not the same person as
muhammad the prophet a thousand years
ago
like what do you want to do do you want
this girl like i think on someone this
is a woman it's a female teacher it's a
female teacher that class like a part of
what she's doing is just i don't want
this girl to break down crying i just
don't want to deal with it like i just
don't want to deal with it you know what
i mean so again
like the team sport situation yeah you
know like dudes may be [ __ ] up by it
too like being told look
uh
you know you're never gonna be a
heavyweight look at the size of your
fist if you're gonna do boxing you're
gonna be a featherweight like you're
just never gonna be big enough
sorry people use fist measurements for
that as a as a yardstick you know what i
mean whatever it is you tell the guy
look you can never your hand your hand
isn't big enough to ever be in the nba i
don't remember that
you don't have what it takes to do this
sport or whatever you know and we do we
do say to men you don't have what it
takes intellectually to do this which
could be terrible it could be a horrible
thing to say to somebody yeah but
there's a lot of kind of man-up stuff
that goes on with that like look and
there's a lot and there's a lot of
saying the boy too hey prove me wrong oh
you think you can do it okay go [ __ ]
don't you show me why don't you show me
you can take a baseball and throw it 99
miles an hour or why don't you show me
you can take this book and teach
yourself sanskrit like okay oh you want
to prove me wrong because i'm saying you
can't do it like there's more of that
combative challenging thing my point is
i don't think this is flattering women
because
people want to seduce them or sleep with
them it's different from flattery it's
just people who are like i'm going to
conserve my energy i don't want to deal
with this i don't want this girl to
break down crying and that that kind of
thing yeah i think that's a lot okay i
think that's a lot of what's going on on
the surface going in okay sure um
sorry i did think of saying something
just in relation to what you were
talking about there you go
i do feel like men at least have more of
this influence of locker room like
that that a coach that a coach will push
them to
do push-ups you know like that women um
don't really have that same
uh
it is statistically
it is statistically the case that women
after a certain age will stop team
sports in high school so like whereas uh
it generally the boys will continue
doing sports in high school uh the
number of women the number of girls who
continue doing sports in high school it
decreases um and so i think uh girls
don't have as much exposure to this this
kind of locker room discussion of like
you know prepping before a game or
something you know um
right i'm not saying that that's like
the most um
that's the best for building up your
confidence or that's the best for
building up your ability to
uh push yourself and like try it fail
and try again and stuff but like there
there at least is that kind of element
to
the experience of being a boy in america
and just just taking responsibility for
your own [ __ ] i mean outside of sports
whether that's taking responsibility for
planning a trip or taking responsibility
for violence in the streets yeah or what
have you so i'm sorry probably five
years ago or something i told the san
antonio
but once i was in thailand with my
girlfriend as a white canadian
girlfriend this is not an asian woman or
something
and there was this particular alleyway
in bangkok thailand at that time i just
mentioned how dangerous bangkok is
changes from third time to next but this
particular alley
in the middle of it there was a
restaurant and they literally had all
times like two guys with machine guns in
the front entrance
it's like the back end runs to this
restaurant the alleyway enters the
desert at all times you know
as this is a dark
dangerous looking alleyway and i just
know that i remember i said to my
girlfriend in this context she was like
oh no we can go up this alleyway and get
a thing it's it's pitch black it's night
and i remember saying to her do you
think that
these guys have machine guns for no
reason like the guys at that restaurant
back there like do you think this is not
a dangerous alleyway in bangkok like
and i said it to her if we get mugged if
we get jumped now
who's going to have to deal with it
i'm going to have to deal with it i'm
going to be the one fighting not you you
know this particular vote it's not true
of all girlfriends maybe some of you
guys are watching this and you have a
girlfriend who's actually going to throw
down who's actually going to throw fists
in in that alleyway situation so look
i'm going to have to deal with it all
right and then the reality is i'm going
to have to console you and make you feel
better afterwards right like even though
i'm gonna be physically beaten to [ __ ]
and we will have both lost our wallets
or whatever i'm gonna have to make you
feel better even though it's gonna be
your fault
like why are you making me good really
[ __ ] up and all this [ __ ] it's just
like she's never the [ __ ] oh no i'd be
fine
like
you know and by the way i've been
through a situation the third where i
had to stand up for her physically where
i had to you know
none of them actually got to to fist
before i where i had to go after
somebody at night
uh in an alley where you know there was
there was a physical threat of violence
or whatever and as a man it's something
normal it's something you have to
prepare for and i was thinking of this
because you know i'm not involved with
team sports i never have been involved
with team sports i've said this all the
time why do i do 200 push-ups a day on
my knuckles it's so i can get thrown
down a staircase you know i mean it's so
i can deal with the the constant threat
of physical violence that you deal with
as a man including even walking on the
streets here you know you do vancouver
is worse i mean i felt it more in
vancouver whatever you know different
situations are worse but there are just
so many drug addicts on the street here
and [ __ ]
and that's it i'm not training for any
sport but you know i'm pointing out
again that particular girlfriend maybe
she was a particularly bad example but i
think she's a pretty normal example it's
like well she's living her life like
there were no consequences for this [ __ ]
and men are living their lives in a way
like look bro it's on you
like all of this is on you and and by
the way i think that there's going to be
because i really try to involve my
girlfriends and wives sorry when i'm
married in making the decisions and
making the preparations but that can
involve also like hey who's buying the
airplane tickets
like any if you make the wrong choice
you know so many women that go through
their whole [ __ ] life and they think
their only role is to whine like oh i
don't like the hotel or whatever like
you no seriously sir oh seriously and
it's like no no i'm laughing i know
because i know women
from my past you know i just
i i can remember a time early in this
relationship but oh yeah yeah yeah yeah
and it's like and you've got to say the
word wait but you got to say to the
woman look if you
you could have booked the hotel you
could have done the you could have
chosen those you know like you could you
could be taking a command i was laughing
because i that was the influence that i
had from my own mother and my own yeah
every every woman that i knew yes that
was right
it's just assumed the man does the
planning role in the command rule in the
lead role and then the woman's rule is
to whine and complain about it yeah it's
like no no dude like you well and it
sucks too like no like you can be in
charge you can be in charge and i want
you to be in charge like 50 of the time
i'd love that
love i did it 60 of the time you solve
all my problems you booked the hotel you
booked the airplane tickets you got it
organized you make it now and you know
you take responsibility for the
consequences when things go right yeah i
know it's way better when you do have
involvement with that when it is partly
i mean yes the responsibility is there
but like when you are actually involved
with planning for a trip then like you
know
from the other side like oh right this
is how i was acting when like
i was being entertained or like i was
being taken somewhere uh i totally took
it for granted and stuff so yeah i i do
think that's that's that's a legit
problem to talk about so one thing that
i wanted to say well i would say i think
just to close it up i think you can see
given all those reflections i think
really you know team sports and
athletics they fit into their their
little subcategory within a much broader
problem yeah with the corrosive
influence of gender roles that you just
said it's no i don't think team sports
are like the primary paradigm that
creates these other phenomena i think
we've talked about a much broader
phenomenon here and then team team
sports are just one yeah
um right so okay one thing that i wanted
to discuss branching off of the
elizabeth warren interview uh that i do
think that this is a time when women can
become just as politically active as men
and should be i mean
that's it's our responsibility and
it's half of the population that can
that can make a huge difference
um
and uh so one thing that i wanted to
talk about in this
is i remember
in family conversations like at family
gatherings
typically when i was younger it was the
old men that were talking about politics
that were talking about world events
that were talking about uh downtown
detroit like the issues and
the
collapse of the car industry the the
automobile industry in detroit uh and i
remember when i was younger and women
would take you aside and say let's have
girl talk oh my gosh how did you know
have i talked to you about this i don't
know i remember that happened once in
front of me we were with a muslim family
we were talking to you you remember that
muslim all the guys are talking about
politics she was just looking at your
face you're really into it yeah she
likes she likes that's why she likes
being with me she likes talking about
politics and history and this kind of
stuff really real stuff and this woman
she's a muslim woman wearing the head
scarf he explodes like oh let's have
girls oh i hate it when they talk about
i hate it when the boys are talking
about serious boy things let's do
whoa
okay you remember that yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah
i think we talked about that time you
were like i hate that that's what
happened within my own family was people
you know yeah so i wanted to understand
what they were talking about because to
me it was like getting at all these
really important issues wouldn't it
sound different like hey you know you
and i are [ __ ] let's have [ __ ]
talk let's just you know let me just
take let's have some let's just [ __ ]
time okay let's just lower our
intellectual standards
all right that is really how i feel
about it i i agree with you
they're all good at all the way real
there are things that women have to deal
with that men don't and i do appreciate
i would appreciate having a woman to
talk about like certain things like
menstrual cycles and you know all this
that i didn't have that influence when i
was a kid like no no woman talk to me
about understanding my menstrual cycle
understanding fertility and like you
know pregnancy and all this stuff like i
just didn't get that input so yes that's
the kind of like woman talk or girl talk
that i would actually like be interested
in talking about other women with um but
the the general pattern of that was okay
so the men are talking about uh race you
know they're talking about uh black
people in detroit and this this issue
between uh white people and black people
like what how what is what are the
origins of this like historically
what's the present situation and what
are we gonna do about in the future like
how can we how can we solve this issue
like yes that mattered to me a great
deal when i was growing up i i wanted to
know why and i wanted to understand like
when we turned on the tv news why is it
that the racism of your time about so
much yeah yeah i know that was that was
a huge part of growing up in detroit
obama time too right now yes
yes right oh yeah oh yeah i got to hear
my racist grandfather talking about the
you know the the black house yeah that
was what he said
because no longer the white house
yeah so um
legit you know um that really mattered
to me and i i was
quite angry about it i was quite um
passionate about this because you know
my education in school was was
anti-racist and was uh you know in favor
of
equality for everybody and i got to see
like just the older generation but your
point is here women were not dealing
with it women were not even present in
the discussion women were trivialized
they were okay so if they were the
contribution was just like so paltry
compared to the contribution that men
were making to the conversation yeah and
um you know this this really mattered to
me and i felt like i just wasn't
getting the right inputs with like
seeing women who who were able to talk
about these issues and who had even read
a book about this issue yeah the men in
my family didn't read books at all like
they didn't talk about uh they didn't
they didn't read about these things they
didn't study them they just were talking
out of their ass basically but at least
they were talking about they listened to
talk radio i think i think that's the i
think while driving their trucks they
were listening to that absolutely true
yeah so yes uh that was my experience
when i was growing up and i i uh you
know
really wanted to
understand and but uh at a certain stage
i just thought like well um you know
it's not not about not taking seriously
it's just that i don't know what to say
and i can't speak for myself and
yeah this kind of helplessness
and if i do speak you know i sound
ignorant i sound stupid yeah and i'm not
i'm not which which is gonna happen yeah
like let's just be clear like in case
you guys think i was born wise i wasn't
you know like you're wrong and you're
wrong and you're wrong and then you look
back and learn from your mistakes and
then you start being right like i'm just
saying for me as a teenager or in my 20s
i was wrong about a lot of things i said
a lot of things that today i would you
know regret or today i would disagree
with or something that is also part of
growing up is that you know so
it's not uh you know the the path
mentioned men do you know snub each
other and denigrate each other and prove
each other wrong
you know again you don't learn by making
mistakes you learned by having your
mistakes pointed out to you oh yeah i
heard men yelling at each other
frequently about like you know when they
were talking about these issues and
afterwards they would always you know
it's not like they were
angry at each other afterwards like
and i remember a couple of times my
father would would talk to me afterwards
and just say like you know uh it's all
in good fun or something like that yes
we're all just talking but like uh
no i i i didn't get that
from women's discussions women's
discussions like focused around like
okay so what's little johnny doing like
let's talk about his so
there was there was one big family
dinner i went to with you and your
extended family and it played out
exactly that way i was part of this big
rambunctious confrontational political
discussion that covered several you know
topics and i would not say i was the
center of attention but i was one of the
most you know charismatic voices there
were three three or four guys all kind
of contending with each other and
everyone else is the women were watching
silently no woman spoke during that
conversation and then when women did
speak because i did stand around with
the women when they were talking and
much much more uh solemn voices
uh they were talking there was a girl
who had a new boyfriend and the
boyfriend already had a kid from a
former yeah yeah yeah so but yeah
of course
but the point is to be blunt women were
talking about dick
yeah to be blunt i guess that's true in
a word they were talking about their own
sex lives and the sex lives of the
younger women were there what was going
that was what we were talking about and
then to some extent
who's getting married yeah having a baby
to some extent trivial things like new
cars or things too yeah that was it was
really our job
yeah and you know the men's conversation
which again entertained people to some
extent was really yeah
right so look you know i think that
we've done a good job here of adam
breeding the culture on
on the whole yeah you know the other big
thing that's changed is you know now
women play video games just like men
okay yeah women play video games women
become psychiatric uh drug addicts women
are dealing with all these other
distractions it's equality in all these
other ways today right yeah yeah well no
equal access to placing no but right but
for women it's even worse because there
are lower standards of lifetime i think
if women get into playstation it doesn't
matter what video games you know
whatever kind of video games
nobody's going to say to them bruh man
up
like bro you got like you know what i
mean like with men there might not be
that many people but no i mean like i
think it's this whole bigotry of low
expectations thing right
oh good for you oh you're taking some
time oh good you do live streaming video
games oh like where just the expectation
is there the expectation is there is
nothing more serious you could be doing
or should be doing you know with your
time and with men yeah people do i
shouldn't i read the biography of a guy
who committed suicide that's why they
wrote his biography or the power of this
guy who killed himself and uh he went
from being addicted to those video games
like call of duty to actually join the
army and that was part of his process of
people saying to him look you're wasting
your life playing this video game if
this is what you like
why don't you actually get out and start
doing some arms training and stuff and
he did and then he commits suicide this
is a long story yeah that that's why
they're possible but i'm just saying
there are people who will say to a man
look you ought to take yourself more
seriously you ought to take life more
seriously actions have consequences and
so i'm saying yeah i'm agreeing with you
women have all the same temptations and
distractions but then they're the lower
expectations you know okay i i think
that is true um
look i i don't know how much it's it's
different from the different genders
though with this situation because of
course you're more likely to have
friends if you are a young man who plays
video games because many other young men
play video games and they want friends
who also play video games but women
women it's even more no because they
have men trying to sleep with them yeah
like through the no no no no no no
everybody wants to be their friend
they're a female voice
on the voice chat no no no no and there
are men sending the money and trying to
buy their underwear and all this no
we're going but no i think you're wrong
there the amount of attention female
gamers get it's
actually live streaming so i was gonna
say here too you know um frida says uh
she doesn't know many women who play
video games
this includes iphone ipad like it's not
just console gaming and yeah
the sims
right
that's right funny i've read the sims
for so many hours as a child it is so
embarrassing anyway yeah that's one of
those we never talk about never comes up
yes and uh
but my point is this goes beyond console
gaming into all kinds of other gaming
thumbs up if you've been uh if you've
been a former addict of the sims give
the video a thumbs up guys more people
will join the conversation more people
see it once it's once it's a video just
helps us reach an audience who might be
interested in some of the stuff but
anyway there are real statistics on this
guys it's true that women do not play
the same video games as men to
generalize when you're looking at the
population of millions of people around
the world but yeah uh games like animal
crossing
they have a pretty precise statistical
knowledge of for how many hours women
are logged in for how many hours they're
playing for games like candy crush on
mobile phones for like so many different
games there are games that women
actually prefer that they play more that
they play for more hours than that yeah
and you know as i recall even the
gambling games even uh
uh you know
uh
even you know card games like poker and
so on you know that's uh that that stuff
they do there is actually a mass
audience okay yeah i i believe you on
that um
yeah so i am glad that when i was in
when i was in college i think there's
there there was the the beginnings of
this streaming culture of women playing
video games however i didn't play games
like that so i wasn't exposed to that
um i did play video games in college and
i deeply regret it
uh and if i could say you know relating
to the title of this this video quitting
video games and being an intellectual as
a woman like
yeah i do regret that i will never get a
chance to be 19 years old again and at
this great university where right
i think i think it's one of one of the
best universities that i could have
attended at that at that age and at that
stage in my life like i had the
opportunity to do independent research
on my own actually get serious about my
life and take myself seriously and i
didn't and you could have learned latin
and you could have learned greek and you
could have learned economics
and you learned nothing you learned how
to play the sims
yeah what i would want to say to you and
mario galaxy she played mario galaxy one
hundred percent during universities
and mario galaxy too go on yeah that's
true so yeah what i would want to say to
young women is like there will be people
who will try to write you off or just
say like stop taking yourself so
seriously like let's just let's just
relax and have fun like no you should
take yourself seriously and if you
aren't going to take yourself seriously
now why would it be easier when you're
25 when you're 30 years old to then
become a more intellectual person to to
care more and to read more books um this
doesn't get easier as as you get older
like it's something that you should
start building when you're that age
rather than playing dude and let me just
say again you know being an intellectual
has nothing to do with how you earn your
money you can be a stripper and be an
intellectual well it's not easy but you
know you can be a waitress and be an
intellectual you can be an army officer
and be an intellectual like it really
doesn't have to do with how you earn
your money and for the vast majority of
people
globally and within the united states of
america there is no way to earn your
living using your brain you know just
give you you could work at a garage
repairing cars you repair cars for a
living but you're also like you know
just say that's that's also really
underrated and it's certainly for women
it's even more underrated there's no
sense
you know there's no sense of be a man
there's no sense of man up there's no
sense of you know yeah yeah
yeah um
so yeah oliver says people will lower
their expectations for young men though
for cooking extremely badly for example
gender roles are real so this is
something i was thinking about earlier
this week because uh you remember at one
point in time we were training to become
bakers we were indeed yeah and uh you
pointed out to me you reminded me which
is it's great to have somebody it's
great to be in a relationship with
somebody who who holds you accountable
like reminds you of things that you've
done
because uh yeah it's easy to just let
yourself off the hook and having
somebody who holds you to higher
standards uh he reminded me that at that
time uh just the difficulty of
being encouraging to me to to read to uh
build myself up intellectually and what
i was doing at the time was frittering
my time away uh baking bread uh making
homemade soy milk like trying to be a
zero waste homemaker type of person and
i i do think that a lot of the exposure
to older women uh on the internet at the
time was was influencing me that like
there are these kind of
paradigms or paragons of
femininity that i see online like women
who have children who manage to cook
whole food plant-based diet for all
their children they manage to grow their
own food and live this kind of lifestyle
this zero waste lifestyle this uh
vacationing in hawaii lifestyle you know
um
that definitely had an influence on me
and i i really thought that i was
building myself into this person that
you know a real woman like being a real
woman you have to have all these things
down where where you're able to be
responsible for taking care of children
while maintaining a beautiful physique
while maintaining uh your kitchen and
all these and all these different things
that um you know at some points i've i
have felt resentful about that that like
men don't have that same kind of
expectation put on them that same kind
of expectation for their role so yeah um
i would be curious to hear like what you
think about that
what do you think about um
the the kind of
on social media what women are exposed
to for so long
i disagree i think the point you're
making i disagree with oliver's point
entirely okay in our culture still to
this day
when you say chef
they think ma'am
being serious about cuisine and i'm
sorry i can i can even say this about
you and i can say this about other women
who are involved in that college program
there was this attitude including the
guy who was the ceo of the college the
guy who was the head it's like okay if
you're a man
you're serious about being a chef you're
serious about being a baker
if you're a career baker the the gender
role is that you're a man and you're
quite a domineering
uh details oriented man you're a man
who's
you know really you know like being an
architect or something you're a man with
a steel trap mind and you're expected to
be a bit of an [ __ ] that's the role
of being the chef you're the head chef
for this bakery you're in charge that's
a male gender role right you're a baker
you're a pastry chef yeah james is
gemini right okay
but like look and the point was the
attitude and i mean i think even melissa
was was kind of a uh you know victim of
this to my understanding you know we
just talked about it to say coming to
this like as opposed to women like oh
you know you're just learning to bake
for fun
you're just learning like you know this
is part of the enjoyment of life that's
part of the relaxation like you you even
saw that that's really true yeah
experience yes
we want to learn how to make like right
on a massive scale we want to talk about
industrial scale how to turn a profit
how to right how to do this on time on a
schedule
and it's like oh no no just you know
this is the you know this is your
grandma with your grandkids going we
don't want to make one pie we don't want
to make one tart we want to make 100
vegan tarts
this is not about grandma doing
something nice on the weekend or
something so i'm sorry but my point is
to say a direct response to to oliver no
even in cuisine
standards are lower for women
even in cuisine even in that
professional setting of being a chef
being a baker
what i saw was instead the gender roles
were like men are the guys who take it
stairs and women can't even be expected
to lift a 10 pound sack of flour can't
be expected to know the differences
between the different kinds of weeds
that's right yeah women can't be
expected to have this steel trap mind
approach so even there i saw it so sorry
the bigotry of low expectation thing i
just want to say
i've seen that everywhere
including cuisine including baking
including cooking as a professional or
getting involved with that at the at the
college level okay so you may you made a
difference rescue point do you remember
what it was so i was curious what you
had to say about the kind of male like
the differences between um
female role models like yes there is
this idea that like we should look up to
hillary clinton as a female role model
yeah but yeah if you are thinking of
just like social media if you're
thinking of youtube the kind of
the kind of person that's okay so i'm
gonna tell you i'm gonna tell you what
it's it's really brief but it's really
deep okay the difference is today
women have a nearly infinite variety of
choices because of the internet because
of social media and as a result things
have gotten worse
now what do i mean so back in the 1950s
and 1960s in canada
there was like one female role model on
cbc television
and she was you can imagine she was an
intelligent well put together woman who
did the kind of news commentary show and
did interviews okay and i know it's sick
to say but of course it was an
incredibly wholesome influence on the
women of canada it was like look this is
the kind of adult you can be you know
what i mean and that's it you didn't
have a choice there were maybe four tv
stations and if you change to the bbc if
you watch british television because in
canada at that time there was a lot of
you know cultural connections to their
cultural connections to england you had
a similarly kind of phony presentation
of a highly intellectual professional
woman on camera and of course it's fake
she's reading a script and this isn't
who she really is or something i mean
you had a very small number of female
role models that were chosen for you you
know 1950s or 1960s that way you know
today instead what you have is the
relative infinity of youtube the
relative infinity of facebook the
internet generally yeah and people are
allowed to seek out and select the role
models they prefer
for example on instagram
and there you see instead this
snowballing effect where women who are
vain
justify their vanity by picking role
models who are vain women who want to be
for example women who want to be a
marijuana smoking hippie
with dreadlocks who dabbles in hindu
mysticism
they're going to select women on youtube
on instagram oh i love her they're
picking role models they're picking
examples for emulation that are
exaggerating their own
fundamentally self-destructive
self-indulgent and stupid tendencies
okay so that is what i see on on a
massive
scale you know now it's very different
it's very difficult to challenge a woman
by saying hey
why don't you go on instagram and you
only select accounts of women who are
the type of person you want to be
right even with books you and i were
joking we had one book written by a
female we have a huge bookshelf i could
wheel it over we've seen it in the
background recently melissa made a video
we have a lot of books now in this right
it's huge by my standards most of my
life i've been poor and moved from one
apartment next and never owned books
this is the most
these are the most books i've owned in
one apartment one time in my life but we
have a lot of books in this department
now
by my standards because i never had the
luxury of living one place and building
a book collection but you know we had
like one book by a female author and i
joked with melissa i said hey what if we
organize our library on two shelves we
have all the books by male authors on
one shelf and all the books by female
authors like do we even have two books
by a female and the one book by a female
author
the point is like if as a woman
you challenge yourself to look up to
intellectual role models on instagram
what have you got right nothing and it's
very hard to i'm not saying there's
nobody but like should you oh why don't
you go follow jacqueline glenn i mean
what remember i remember where jaclyn
glenn was five years ago eight years ago
there probably were some young women the
oh jacqueline glenn she's a strong
educated woman she's studying to be a
medical doctor she's in med school she's
an atheist she talks about the theory of
evolution okay we'll look at her today
today she has fake tits she sells sign
photographs of herself in a bikini she
advertises dildos she does youtube
videos look at the camera talking about
the dildo gave her an orgasm that's
announced that's really going to be a
family youtuber because she just had a
baby who the [ __ ] knows yeah right you
know
you know what whatever degeneracy she
goes on to next but you know my point is
like if you were someone looking for a
female intellectual idol on instagram on
youtube but even at the library even
taking books off the shelf at the
library even published authors and women
with phds right it's really slim it's
really glam grim but the point is
the woman doing the selecting the woman
looking on instagram the woman the
person who's in the audience right what
would motivate them to do that as
opposed to just hey i'm gonna look for
youtubers that make me feel bad about my
own bad habits that reinforce my vices
like i'm vain i'm gonna look for a
youtube channel that makes me feel
better about my vanity you know whatever
you're a [ __ ] so you subscribe to sex
positive
channels that are taking back the word
[ __ ] and encouraging you to go out and
sleep with a hundred guys a year that
exists you know there were men who do
this also by the way it's just that's
not the topic of this video really and i
have made videos i have made a lot of
videos criticizing men's sexuality and
the way men justify i really have but
anyway no but there are women who do
that on the opposite extreme there are
women who are christian conservatives
who only want everyone to have sex with
one guy and want to be part of this
christian marriage and they seek out
those youtube channels but like the
point is
what you see in that self-affirming
cycle
uh it it makes the question as you posed
it almost irrelevant that's how that's
how role models die okay that people get
to choose their role you take a [ __ ]
look at the choices you might recall how
i introduced that was that you had
reminded me that i was frittering my
time away at that time uh by making
homemade soy milk and trying to do more
base my life around more zero waste
habits and so on so yes i think that's a
good observation that now that we have
this freedom we can choose to
basically reinforce our own beliefs by
whom we follow uh yes i i do think at
that time i was it's not like i i look
up looked up to anybody as an idol but i
did probably i probably was seeking out
that content rather than looking for
sure i wasn't looking for the
social media presence of female authors
or you know i wasn't really paying
attention much to female politicians at
that time so yeah i do think that's
that's true but um just kind of the in
your face
quality of a lot of those those youtube
channels where it's just like this is
motherhood or like this is what it means
to be a real woman or something like
even if they don't directly say that
it's like oh you have to know how to
you know deal with cloth diapers you
have to you know like know all this
stuff like in advance or whatever like
like this is the kind of thing that in
the vegan movement at least like that's
that's kind of how i felt like yeah you
should be fair that you also were drawn
to a lot of anti-natalist content that
was absolutely yeah yeah right now yeah
i know what i'm just saying that's
another example where you had a tendency
and you were looking for something true
absolutely yeah so anyway um but yeah
the point is here also video game
addicts can just seek out youtube
channels that reinforce their life as a
video game addict and makes that seem
normal yes
whatever it is you're into you get into
self-justification um whether people are
thought of as role models or not
yes okay so getting onto this idea of
like female authorship versus male
authorship and um
you know okay one thing is is of course
somebody who is a female author somebody
who has a phd somebody who is spending
their time researching they probably are
not
going to make a youtube channel talking
about their
research i mean it might exist like you
know it's very very
looked into it very much um
but um
yes i do think that this is still a
problem at least with what we've been
reading lately that most of the topics
that i've been interested in
many of the
the most important books are written by
men still
have been written by men and this is
something that could be could be changed
like this is the generation where like
women should be taking themselves
seriously and if it's not going to be
you then who is it going to be um and
when i was younger when i was in college
like i just didn't think of myself that
way
i didn't think that i was i
i could have that kind of authorship
that kind of authority so so look though
i mean this is really bring it back to
the very fundamental topic this video is
about
i have done a lot of research lately
that related to books i was trying to
buy
from ancient greece and ancient rome
so this was you know is this
translation better than that translation
but you know i'm on amazon buying some
of these books
and and some of them deciding not to buy
um
you know you can get this stuff on the
internet for free
if you want if you're okay with a
certain type of text reading a certain
different format
but i was looking up youtube videos
about these particular greek and roman
authors
and sometimes there's nothing sometimes
there's never been a single youtube
video about that author about that book
about that topic which is interesting to
see
but you know when there were videos made
by women
the intellectual standard they were
holding themselves to was so much lower
so there's a video about livy so this is
l-i-v-y uh ancient roman historian and
there was a woman she'd done two
different videos talking about a
particular
it was just the penguin edition some
mainstream edition of of livy
and you know her whole manner of
speaking and the levels
hi guys well i got this version of the
book and let me tell you
i mean like you know there's i'm i'm
really talking about substance here not
just style it's possible to say
something really substantive in that
sing-song style but no
she talked like a bimbo she seemed like
a bimbo she acted like a bimbo and i've
got to tell you the the the content was
at
dumb bimbo level and just being real
that particular woman
i think she could do better but you know
i don't know her you know if she tried
if she had that concept you know what i
mean and when i saw other people's
videos there was one guy he was a kind
of middle-aged not very attractive white
guy who did a video on the same thing
and he was instead looking at it in
terms of the nitty-gritty of the
different publishers and the different
editions and stuff and the whole tone
is different you know what i mean the
standard he's
and he might not even be
aware of it he doesn't sit down in front
of the camera and say to himself okay
now i've got to say something really
intelligent like you know i don't think
he's working himself up or something or
he's probably not watching the video
afterwards and wondering does this live
up to my standards like it's something
you embody after a certain point where
you live your whole life answering to a
higher standard
and yeah look um i'm sorry but aoc
alexandria ocasio-cortez you know what
i'm talking about uh if somebody's
watching this video 10 years from now
when the initials aoc have become
meaningless right you know i'm gonna be
the queen of america what the [ __ ] aoc
is such a [ __ ] she's so
stupid and she's not even trying and
like you you know you wonder what
couldn't you do better you know she has
her little crying fits she feels so sad
feels her if you know she's sitting
there writing on twitter if you want to
know why i broke down crying the other
day in the middle of that vote on israel
and palestine this is why this is the
reason because i've been bullied all the
time because of my position as your
like
dude dude man up dude hold yourself to a
higher dude [ __ ] your tears [ __ ] your
emotions
masculinity what do you think we what do
you think we elected you for are you
supposed to be a leader or a follower or
a [ __ ] self-pitying
you know slobbering mess like what the
[ __ ] is this
you know
selfie is sobbing a mess i should say um
sobbing and slobbering are two different
things yes but you know um
you know in her whole little
breakdown of how she thought she was
going to die on january 6th it was full
of us
my point is like i don't think aoc is
born so different from me i don't think
this is a biological difference but
there's this profoundly corrosive
corrupting effect
you know of of these lower expectations
right and then these people that live
their whole lives they've never thought
about like well what am i really capable
of what's the higher standard i could be
aspiring to what should i be trying to
live up to you know okay and yeah i
think that i think yeah this might
relate to something that you've said it
wasn't in the last video that the last
live stream about
advice to young men and quitting video
games um but it was a video that you
recorded recently or a live stream you
were talking about the role of duty and
honor and sometimes you talk about
bronze age values recently um
yes i do think that this is um
lacking today
i think in both
for both genders
i don't think it's really that much
different uh for men and women um so
i've heard what you've had to say
about bronze age values for men um about
how men will will die for duty will die
for honor
um what does that mean for women what
would you say that yeah it would mean
for women and you could say for aoc in
this example if she's a politician if if
she's been elected
what is her duty and
what does it mean to be an honorable
person okay
okay so i'm giving you my 100
real answer
okay
when my father talked about communism so
my father was a communist extremist he
wasn't a moderate he was an extremist
he's thinking about history he's
thinking about what he would have done
in different historical situations with
the assumption that his life would be on
the line
he's thinking about
getting killed risking his life he's
thinking about killing other people he's
thinking about living the rest of his
life with blood on his hands from those
events when my mother is talking about
the same [ __ ] history because my
mother was also a communist nutcase
during my childhood during my teenage
years when i was growing up right my
mother is thinking like oh men would
take care of that oh other people would
fight and die and kill and be killed and
that doesn't have to do with me she's
thinking she gets to sit here on her
throne knitting
while other people fight and die on a
really deep level there's a refusal to
take responsibility or refuse to see
oneself as equal and to see oneself as
equally implicated you know like it's
blood on your hands too like you're also
part of the war effort
you know one way or another like if
you're a woman and you're a nurse in the
war like i understand you're not pulling
the trigger but you're there you're part
you're a woman you're cooking food in a
tent for the army like you know you can
explore in the army in a million ways
like you know i understand a very small
number of women have a combat role
but you know they're women who are
helicopter today they're women to do all
kinds of things but if you know go back
50 years there were very few roles for
women in the military but still of
really seeing yourself not as a
passenger in politics not as a passenger
in history but as being in the driver's
seat you know i'm just saying this is a
contrast with my father and my mother
have i personally ever known any
exception to the rule have i known any
woman who reads about history thinks
about history talks about history feels
about history you know the way my father
did the way i do the way most men who
take these things seriously do no never
and
just give you a funny example this is
this is a pretty funny harmless example
um
my ex-wife
went to a
phd conference some kind of academic
conference or colloquium and i think
everyone there
had a phd in
anthropology or they were
a student in the process of getting
their phd is a pretty elite kind of
events these are all supposedly
highlighted people maybe a few people
were there from sociology some other
department this is an illegal
and
so i'm sorry i'm probably garbling this
story to some extent this is not super
accurate it's a really it's a really
short story
and uh
you know someone does a presentation
that involves or mentions
uh female circumcision
widespread throughout the muslim world
and there's a good-looking white woman
in the audience then the presentation
ends and it's question time so this is
like phd level
q a and she stands up and she said well
i think we should fly over there and
bomb those people and force them to stop
doing
wow
and like this is low and a lot of these
fields they're like majority female i
think the majority of people this event
are female and one is just presented or
female and it's like well if they won't
stop doing this like the army force and
the whole way of talking about it like
i'm just saying no i'm not a lot of men
are stupid
a lot like 90 percent okay most men are
stupid this is not about difference
intelligence it's very different if a
man sits there and says look
i feel that this issue is so serious
that i would be willing to join the army
i would be willing to put my life on the
line for five years for 10 years and go
out news and you know what
i feel that if my own son were to go out
and fight for this and kill people for
this and maybe die for this or come back
injured for this
i think that would be worth fighting
it's not just a difference in tone of
voice right there's a difference between
a fundamentally passive view of the
world like well you know the boys should
go and take care of this issue like
you should go solve this for me you
should go solve this problem i'm gonna
sit here and pass judgment about what's
right and what's wrong and then other
people are gonna sell the problem like
no and i'm sorry but for me in a more
subtle way this came up again and again
with the 2020 discussions about police
reform oh right so like you know you had
it was there were a lot of women in the
discussion including a lot of black
women african-american women yeah yeah
and like
you know
okay you are making this statement about
how social workers instead of the police
should reply to 9-1-1 calls okay and
again those people should do that okay
all right it's very different if you say
you're putting yourself in the driver's
seat as someone who might do that job
someone's experiencing them and say look
somebody says look i know what it's like
to show up at someone's apartment at two
o'clock in the morning and they're going
crazy and you're not sure if you're
gonna get shot or stabbed
like i know what it's like to be the
police in that position like you're a
police officer you get a domestic
violence call and there's a man and a
woman and there's at least maybe they're
holding a knife you don't know if
there's a knife and a gun involved
you're coming into this apartment and
they're they're maybe they're both high
on drugs or they're drunk this okay
domestic violence you've got to come in
and break it up right and and guess what
i know that if you send in a
psychiatrist or you send in a social
worker they are going to be it's going
to be just as hard for them or harder
and they're going to have a gun and
we're going to see like to really talk
it through and to really say hey you
know what the police are doing a hard
job and i can imagine how hard it would
be for me too and to say hey i'm willing
to do that job too i'm willing to sign
up and spend five or ten years of my
life putting my neck on the line and you
know it's not just some social worker
who do a better job i think
i could do a better job and i recognize
i recognize how hard that is to walk
into the room and there were two people
trying to beat each other up and i have
to i have to break them yeah i have to
shut this down without putting my own
life in danger and without shooting and
killing one of them like
you see what i'm saying seeing history
in the driver's seat seeing that way so
sorry i know this it may seem like a
small thing but i think this is one of
the deepest and most pervasive
differences you know between between men
and women
seen in aggregate seen on a scale of
millions of people okay are there
exceptions
i'm sure there are i'm sure there are
some women who think i've never met one
just including all these women i knew
with pgs i have never met one who thinks
about politics in the present tense this
way police military in the presence nor
historically who look back and think by
the way
but i have met the opposite i have met
effeminate gay men
who have attitudes whether you know what
it's just a choice i guess i have met a
feminist gay men who have a kind of
dismissive passive attitude towards
history that way okay
other people should conquer afghanistan
other people should get rid of the
taliban and there's no real
there's none of that real thought and
commitment yeah okay yeah that's that's
i think i mean
i think now i think that's the
difference between you now versus you
five years ago i think yeah yeah
yeah yeah but like when you yeah
even if it's a war that has nothing to
do with you reading the war and thinking
about that thing about the council
you're starting to personalize it so i
have more ownership yeah before i met
you i'd started taking on more of this
like personal responsibility in terms of
like living more ethical lifestyle like
i embraced veganism like and uh
right around the time that i met you i i
embraced sobriety you know like i took
on these these different aspects of like
what i did with my own time but i
it is true like it has taken me quite
some time and and i still do struggle
with like feeling like i have authority
like i have some kind of
say in what happens in the world around
me you know
but if if if not by this age like at
what stage am i going to feel that way
am i going to build up the knowledge and
capabilities of like being able to
influence
going to a town hall meeting like going
to city hall and and
presenting on these issues you know like
at some point you have to step it up and
you have to if you really care about
these issues you know and i don't want
to be just screaming at people on the
street and protests about veganism you
know i don't want to let you let people
you don't want to sound as dumb as aoc
for you too when you listen to aoc
making some of these things like
you know
that's true yeah i don't want to feel
dumb when i see myself on youtube or
whatever on twitter that's true
yeah yeah
yeah but yeah i'm just giving it a real
world comparison yeah yeah i know that's
true um if i if i ever do get the chance
to be in a leadership role um
you know i yeah that that is oh okay so
this this could relate to one thing as
well that i wanted to discuss um
we've seen a bunch of mothers giving
their political opinion lately
you know you don't want to sound like an
idiot like that
yes yes mothers giving their opinion
about what books should be taught to
their children in school yes this is the
kind of thing that has been in the news
a lot lately so uh something that i
thought about more um since i started my
relationship with you so it's been
close to five years and um because i had
this experience with uh um being
involved with your daughter when when we
were able to see your daughter you know
um it really got me thinking that
the responsibilities that that come with
having a child some you know for
for everybody like everybody's
responsibility when they have a child is
to to teach their children um
and we
it's it's very obvious to me when i
think about it in in the in the home
like with parents and children that that
is part of your responsibility like your
children is your children are going to
ask you a lot of questions and you have
to be able to respond you have to be
able to answer
um and and
if if you don't then you're setting your
child up to be ignorant
um
but uh it's it's not as easy to see it
outside of that context i think for a
lot of people when
they have to
think of themselves as political
entities or like people uh who
could be interviewed on the news or
something you know about a certain issue
um
or
if the you know people who make youtube
videos they know like this pressure to
to feel like they're saying something
worthwhile something that that can make
a difference um
and actually educating people that that
has really shifted throughout throughout
my years of knowing you um and and
growing into somebody that like
feels like they would be able to answer
a question so um you know something
that's simple uh something that's come
up in conversation with with you um
when you were a child you remember
asking
uh you remember that your mother asked
you about the tides how the tides were
yes
um so this is this kind of role reversal
where you would think that the mother
would be teaching the son about how the
tides work um but then isil
as well was in this position from a
young age of like teaching his own
parents you know yeah um so so this is
this is this kind of backwards thing
where like you know once you
start considering like
taking on this role of being a mother or
like taking on this role of like having
some kind of authority in the world um
mothering other people in some other
sense yeah uh you know what do you
really know and like all the years that
you should have been preparing for your
for if you've been playing video games
if you've been
uh making homemade soy milk or something
like in some ways like
that's just gonna set you up for failure
set you up for being a dumb person
so so look too so there there was a
woman and you will see melissa is not
disturbed by my image of this there was
a woman who basically tried to steal me
away from you and
you were this relationship was never in
any in any uh danger that way and it
wasn't clear when she started talking to
me probably wasn't clear to her either
that's what she was she was after she
started talking to me and you know
whatever i didn't know that was what was
up and said she also might not have
known does that but a couple months
later she revealed she said look that
what she wants is for me to dump melissa
and get together with this other woman
instead
and she is a conventionally good-looking
blonde
and she just can't imagine
how i how i look at this because you
know for her for her as a woman you know
and i was trying to be friends with
she's someone i'd known you know on and
off for a couple years someone i you
know she's vegan and i can say some
positive things about her but sir you're
asking the question of like once you
become a parent once you become a mother
what do you have to
teach somebody like what do you have to
offer like for this woman like the way
she lived her life
i would not say she's an alcoholic or
anything like that
but it's that working for the weekend
lifestyle she's going out and drinking
alcohol and partying
she's living a really shallow
meaningless life that revolves around in
my opinion fancy shoes and going out
with friends and drinking and partying
and she was someone who had had sex or
one night stands with an alarming number
of complete strangers both living this
kind of club opening lifestyle remember
those ages ago we talked about this yeah
you know
but like now you know i did not say this
to her and she can't imagine seeing it
this way her perspective on life is that
she's a good-looking woman and
practically every guy absolutely wants
to get with her the moment she opens the
door a crack i mean remember i i told
you about this too because this is at
the stage wasn't clear like is she
trying to seduce me or what i remember
one of the things she said to me is she
said look you know
the fact that i'm talking to you at all
means a lot
you know it means something
yeah yeah yeah she kind of then it's
like a couple months after that it's
like yeah like you know what you know um
you know i had effectively friends on
her but my point is this like
it had not occurred to her she had never
thought
like from my perspective from the
perspective of a guy like me
like she is bringing nothing to this
relationship she is not she has
absolutely no
intellectual substance now i don't i
can't you know i can't say too much
about this
but uh
during the time that i was talking to
her there were really remarkable
political events unfolding that i was
talking to melissa about and any of you
were my personal friends i was talking
to these so i'm it was 2020. you know
i'll just say but there were these big
political events happening in 2020
and i was getting inspired to write my
book i think i hadn't started writing
the book yet but i'm reading about this
politics and i'm talking about listen
about any other friends i had at that
time talking to them about what's going
on politically yeah and when i try to
talk to her when i try to talk to this
good looking blonde
there is there is nothing
there is no i might as well be talking
to a wall right so that's what i mean
like we're not talking about the
intellectual stance you're being being
incredibly high but you know my
fundamental point is just like she was
someone who i mean it had not occurred
to her
you know what i mean like oh if you want
this kind of man if you want this kind
of life and indeed you know if you want
to move on to being a good parent you
know if you want to be a good woman like
no like your intellectual development
your intellectual substance and your
political acumen those that all really
matters
and i do think she's an example of
someone who lived the life of being a
good looking blonde in america where
these things are at a real premium and
just you know just never held herself to
any higher standard never yeah yeah
that's
yeah and you guys already know i did i
did mention the way that ended was me
saying to her look you know it's not
it's i basically look the situation is
not like i'm with melissa therefore i
can't be with you i said to her really
clearly
um there is no parallel universe where
you and i would become a couple like if
i weren't with melissa if i were single
like you have to understand this is you
know you you would not be
it's and it's for this reason so yeah
you know now look um
i'm not going to make the claim that men
are by contrast omniscient or something
but of course you know the vast majority
of men get that the vast majority of men
understand that women women do not want
to be with a stupid man they do not want
to be with a fool you know that you know
the vast majority of women there's you
know there's a very obvious pressure on
you
you were talking about the role of a
mother talk about the role of being a
father
that women do expect whether it's
articulated or not they expect you to be
a man of substance a man you know so i'm
that that's there
and um
yeah in my whole life i think i've only
ever talked to one man who didn't get
that but i mean with the exception of
some really mentally disabled people i
think all men know that there is this
pressure on them all the time
and then how they deal with it and what
they do with it that's another story
because for sure some escape into a life
of drug addiction and video games like
some of them try to evade it or whatever
but yeah that there was this this big
experience
and what do you want to say
more with that i mean
no i i uh
i think i covered what i wanted to say
about that yeah
um
but yeah okay let me just say this i
don't think any man would need you to
explain to him why he's being rejected
if he's rejected for not being smart
enough not being substantive enough not
being intellectual enough like it's not
gonna be like what you know
this is this never and you know that was
a situation with a woman where like
like despite the fact that she's watched
my youtube videos for years whatever
it's like it hasn't occurred to her that
what i'm about is the life of the mind
and like
say
just giving this out as advice for
everyone you know if you have really
great sex with somebody
still i'm taking a walk with melissa the
other day and it's like look what makes
this walk pleasant it's not the
smoothness of the sidewalk it's not the
color of the sky it's not the sight of
the ocean it's taking a walk with you
it's taking a walk with someone who's
worth talking to it's taking a walk with
someone you intellectually respect
someone with something intelligent to
say back to you like
you know having a you're going to walk
with someone you have you're attracted
you have great sex with like
true
in the absence of the life of the mind
it's really nothing more yeah no okay
yeah i guess i could say more just but
that you know i think i think we've
sure did a good job of talking about
that um
yeah i i guess um you got conclusions no
the conclusion is it's hopeless
well no it kind of relates to something
else that i wanted to say um
yeah i do i do find that funny that she
said it means a lot that i'm talking to
you yes i told you about that at the
time too yeah
i guess i had forgotten that but yeah um
you know
what what she had a boyfriend at that
time oh really yeah [ __ ] that was the
other thing she had a boy i had a
girlfriend she had a boyfriend and
you're telling me it means alone what do
you think that you have to offer though
like when when you are talking with
people you know um yeah
i i don't have very uh
inflated ideas about about what i
what i have to offer in a conversation
or what i have to offer other people um
but yeah i know that is that is funny to
me
um okay you you look you say that
but
in a specific context it's not true so
i'll give you a specific context we both
decided not to study here at the
university of victoria right long story
short we were considering we both went
up to the university campus
no if you were sitting and talking to
those kids
you're talking to a typical let's say 19
year old doesn't matter if they're male
or female
and like you may not think you know a
lot about the politics of china or the
politics of japan or whatever has come
up the politics of hong kong for example
currently unfolding
but you do
and when you be sitting down in that
context with those kids having those
conversations be like no no that's not
what the situation's like in hong kong
at all
you know xinjiang you know western china
like no no look
so i mean i it's kind of easy for you to
say that that you don't feel you have
sunday
now another example is vegan activism if
you're sitting down with other frankly
it doesn't matter if they're 19 or 39
you could be sitting down with other
people who are super gung-ho about being
an activism but they don't know what you
know
and you're like look
it's not like that like i know something
i have something to share so
it's fine for you to say that but i
really think ian praxis in any kind of
social context you sit down in that's
really not true that you are aware of
what you have to contribute and the ways
in which you can really help other
people
whether or not you do because you can
just sit there silently you can just sit
there listening to people who are
talking about vegan activism right how
they're gonna volunteer for dxd you can
just sit there talking and listening to
people talk about
xinjiang or the myanmar or rohingya
muslims you sit there just like
yeah like you said but but you are not
unaware even if you're silent but even
if you're silent you know you know that
you have something that's all i'm saying
go on yeah but it would be it would take
effort to to try to prove somebody or
you know try to convince somebody that
what they're saying is ignorant or they
they just aren't aware of certain things
yeah and uh also you don't want to make
people break down crying okay
like right
this kind of um
you know social
so this is also this is also gender
coded massively right you saw me sit
down with the university professors this
is not a student it's a professor yeah
he said a bunch of crass [ __ ] about
xinjiang and i basically said i didn't
want to change talking conversation i
said look we're not going to get in
touch with xinjiang but look i can tell
you've never read one book on this
subject you don't know what you're
talking about you're repeating stuff you
read in the new york times you don't
[ __ ] you don't know the first book in
the entire right and that was a
conversation that was very much
man-to-man
you know it really was
and you know i wasn't being
mean-spirited i wasn't trying to be
denigrating him but you know he's a
university professor i am a student and
that was a real challenge as an
authority and you got to see how we
dealt with it that was neither the first
nor the last challenges they were like
throughout that whole conversation there
were a whole bunch of points where i was
basically telling them look
you're talking out of your hat you don't
know what the [ __ ] you're talking about
and i do i know a lot about that and you
know you see how that goes yeah now i
think most
you've seen me demonstrate it i think
most women in our culture but in every
culture i'm familiar with they don't
know i have a conversation with that oh
yeah and uh
whether that's fear-based or
fragility-based or what you know like
and you could try you've seen me do it
what i mean um
you could try and
both sides might not know how to handle
it like if you talk to a woman that way
you know how is she going to respond if
you talk to a man that way how's he
going you know and
that that's running up against exactly
this whole culture of holding women to
lower standards and for real if you had
said to that same professor the same
things i said
i don't think he would have fought back
the way he did with me not really yeah
sure i'm not i'm not saying he's a bad
guy i'm just saying without being caught
i think probably the response you go oh
good for you oh good for you dear there
would have been more oh so you've read
some books about santiago's you know
like good for you all that's great good
to hear good to hear you're you know i
think you you really get more of this
kind of thing you know yeah and not like
look bro i just you know
i just showed the emperor has no clothes
and the emperor is you yeah you know
you're you know you're ignorant and a
liar frankly and i've just shown it you
know that i'm not just saying with the
one incident that happened again and
again in that conversation my professor
just said okay
so the last time that we talked about
this or that you had a podcast or you
had a live stream that you were talking
about like advice for young men
you mentioned that you didn't get into
topics of sexuality um
i would say we've succeeded again in
this in this live stream with not really
discussing um as i've i've seen the
audience the chat has has
kind of veered off into some topics
about sexuality and relationships and so
on so i don't know do you feel like
we've
we've reached a point but
look maybe dude or do you think that we
should go on other topics because i'm
open-minded look maybe that's got to be
a separate a separate live stream where
we just talk about the sexy stuff for
for both genders yeah but you know it is
supposed to be about the life of the
mind and being an intellectual yes and i
mean i think the very basic point that's
been alluded to again and again
without getting into it in greater depth
is just
you know okay
this is an obstacle to the life of the
mind and it's an obstacle for women in a
way that it isn't for men go on okay but
i will say one thing that i could say
here is uh you know in relation to
your romantic life your your love life
and your sex life it really does matter
who you get involved with of course and
yes
from personal experience like take it
from me like it's it's really important
to be with somebody that's that's going
to continue to learn so you know i don't
trivialize this at all if anything i
mellow dramatize it i i exaggerate this
news but look i knew a man
he was a white guy and he lost his
virginity with a prostitute in the
philippines he flew to the philippines
that was his first sexual experience of
women and that was not the i don't know
how many prostitutes to slept with but
he slept with
some number of prostitutes since then
asian prostitutes
that impacted and influenced the rest of
his life on so many levels
like there's no way to exaggerate the
warping distorting effect that had on
his intellectual development his
emotional development his ethical
development right yeah from his teenage
years forward now so like now it's very
easy to draw some advice from that my
advice is don't sleep with [ __ ] you
know um you know whatever especially if
you're under 25 years old or something
if you're a young man don't sleep with
prostitutes i really think it'll do harm
to you as a as as a young man being the
client
not talking about the prostitutes you
know i really think this can this can
affect you in ways you you yourself as a
teenage
teenage man can't understand that's my
my advice on that okay so obviously
for women
that is not the problem i mean how many
women lost their virginity by paying a
male prostitute like it's going to be
incredibly close to zero you know what i
mean for how many women is their sexual
development warped because they are the
client they are the john as we say
paying someone it's not it's yeah but
for women
yeah but for women instead you have this
avalanche of male attention coming into
your life right
and you know i'm sorry but there was
there was a comment above it's it's now
many minutes ago of someone's saying
that she does have women in her family
who are medical doctors and surgeons but
they only get positive feedback they
will get appreciation from the family
when they cook a seven course meal when
they cook a big dinner that's what's
rewarded well you know
for the most part for women for many
years their life starting at a
shockingly young age and continuing you
know but like you know
certainly throughout their teenage years
what women find is rewarded is a certain
kind of sexually salacious activity you
know so sure that that becomes this
massive you know
source of influence in women's life and
in their intellectual development and
you know i i think it's yeah it's a huge
part of it and i you know i
um for many years i
wanted to like really separate my
intellectual life from my sexual life
like or you know thoughts about
sexuality are inherently degenerate and
like are not related to
discussions about philosophy history
like you know let's let's completely
separate these issues but like i really
think that sexuality is is a part of
everybody's life everybody has a
sexuality and and dealing with that
discovering that and exploring that like
um and and understanding yourself like
that that is something that um
it's not separate from from your
intellectual life it's not separate from
what you're what you're researching or
what you're what you're reading about
you know um but look i have never met a
woman
who openly said
i don't have to read about
politics and history and philosophy
because i'm beautiful
but i have met so many women who
implicitly believe that
and like it's not that hidden behind us
like they're they will they will pretty
they will they will say that to you
yeah no no no and that's incredibly
[ __ ] up no
no no no no no but that's the culture we
live that's the century we live in no
like for real
and nobody's gonna hold the higher
standard and they never hold themselves
to higher standard and no man is ever
gonna say to them and nobody within
their family is gonna say to them nobody
gives a [ __ ] that you have big tits you
know like whatever it is that makes them
stand nobody gives a [ __ ] that you have
a nice ass that ain't worth [ __ ] you
know you have to hit the books you have
to accomplish something you have to be
somebody you have to make something out
of yourself you know [ __ ] you you
shallow vain imbecile you know what was
it okay but if you have a dude who has
that attitude you know there are good
looking guys there are guys who get
behind their looks yeah right absolutely
but
a man would feel ashamed to say that or
exhibit attitude i mean he's at least
going to keep up the illusion that he's
a refined intellectual so it's maybe
complete [ __ ] you know yeah you know
i'm just saying
my point is
the obstructive nature of female vanity
in our culture in our century in all the
cultures i'm i'm familiar with that has
this really amazing like whatever you
say toxic effect corrosive effect on
female intellectual development
emotional development you know
everything else or they haven't even
considered now look we have a new book
out there's a hit book out by um
well okay look little water is laughing
says lmao my ass is pretty
um
we just watched a video the other day
from this girl and that's all she cares
about this youtuber who was talking
about having pretty face privilege and
pretty ass privilege yeah she's like now
she got a [ __ ] she got plastic
surgery on her ass that bigger i said
now when i go to the nightclub i'm that
[ __ ] everyone pays
like that's those are the [ __ ]
horizons of her of her life you know
a lot of intellectual development over
the years
zero hasn't read a book since high
school
my ass is not big
that's her whole life compared to the
music videos i watch
so so
no woman will ever say to you that their
whole life consists of competing for
male attention
or competing with other women for who's
the prettiest woman in the office or
who's the prettiest woman in their in
their classroom but like dude a lot of
women live their whole lives by those
rules you know that's what's going on
for a lot of women all the time and has
this massively mentally deadening effect
you know and it doesn't it doesn't have
to i mean it doesn't have to how many
hours a day are you doing your hair and
makeup yeah you know what i mean like
it's just like if you want to be
beautiful okay check done for some
people it is effortless some people
don't have to put any effort into being
beautiful they're born with what it
takes and now okay now what about
actually developing yourself as an
intellectual as an author or as a
creative person as an analytical person
however you want to think of it yeah one
of my essays in college was about my
choice not to wear makeup if i had
really
been more objective about my writing i
could have you know there's a way to
make that essay interesting but like man
it's embarrassing to look back on that
but you know like my perspective on it
you've shown me some of your colleges
right yeah yeah no my college writing
and didn't i i got ideas straight a's in
all of my english courses like nobody
was told you do a higher standard yeah
my professors i i thought it was a
pretty good writer because all my
professors gave me a's and no one's
saying this would never be published
i didn't even think that no no it was
just like this is for this no nobody
said yes you know nobody said you should
compare yourself to the greatest authors
in your field and try to be at that
level
no there's no way i could write like
whole soy and i couldn't write well you
can
but that's what yeah
certainly no no right no no i i thought
of myself as
yeah no no no way um so yeah
that is just interesting to reflect on
that um uh in that same class actually i
had a fellow student who wrote her essay
because this was a writing class and we
were trying to talk about personal
experiences so her essay was about her
experience being a cam girl so
somebody who was close to my age maybe
she was a year older or something
because i was i was young from a grade
but you know somebody who had been
through a lot more sexually than i had
you know had put herself out there way
more than i had you know like i would
have never considered going into porn i
would have never considered being a
cannibal at that age at that stage in my
life but like you know she had already
developed this way like this this this
mature way of thinking about her
sexuality about about commodifying her
sexuality making money
it's true yeah
her sexuality as her career yes yeah and
it's somewhat destructive and you know
she talked about um in response to my
essay about makeup she talked about like
for her like it's it's
she was a makeup addict like she was
always buying new makeup and stuff and
at the time i was just like wow i mean
like that's what you're spending your
time on you're spending your time on
like
putting dildos inside of you on camera
and putting makeup on your face like for
this audience and stuff you know like
that is and she's making money from that
you know it's just i'm gonna mention
though so there was a comedy called
tropic thunder
so if you guys you know when i was a kid
i was involved in the theater
if you spend time in the theater around
actors like most of the male actors are
also really good-looking guys and
they're guys who are there because
they're going nuts but a movie like
trevor thunder is making fun of male
actors but when you're around male
actors
every single one of them is a
pretentious [ __ ] every
every single one of them has a stack of
books about like philosophy and politics
and history and shittiest camera like
they're reading nietzsche and talking
about nietzsche like was to use a stereo
whatever it is they're reading at the
time but seriously they can be reading
stuff from ancient greek greece too you
know there are some jokes in tropic
thunder about the about the ancient
greeks there's a joke about uh
aristophanes like yeah aristophanes it's
so hot right now
they're these shallow kind of male model
like you know they're these good-looking
guys really shallow
but those guys still they are at least
trying like that's what the jokes are
about that movie they're still trying to
front like they're intellectuals or
they're actually trying to be
intellectuals they're trying to develop
you know when you talk to male male
actors you know and i gotta tell you
something you hang around female actors
and the vast majority of them have this
attitude we've been describing they have
the attitude of
i'm that [ __ ]
like i was the prettiest girl in my high
school everybody wanted to [ __ ] me
you know like everyone makes exceptions
for me i get to skip in line you know
like whatever they really have the
attitude that they're
that's it they're a beautiful woman and
that's all they ever need to be and
that's all they're going to be they have
no
they feel no pressure on themselves to
to pretend to be an intellectual or make
any effort to develop that way so yeah
that's that you say acting as a
microcosm
you maybe see that all displayed a
little bit more openly you know now i
would say also guys at the gym or
something guys who are personal trainers
you see girls who are female personal
trainers female churches and that's it
hey i'm high period and the men who are
in that role are like well yeah i'm hot
but i've studied nutrition i've done
this i've done that i know all this
technical sports medicine stuff like
where you really see this where where
men aren't living with the idea of i'm
hot and that's all i need to be like
that's for me that's the roof that's the
limit of this guy you see women who are
really limiting themselves because
that's how they think of themselves and
dude
this applies to ugly women as well i
cannot tell you how many women i've
known who are really unattractive where
everything we've just said applies well
they just they don't work as actresses
they don't work as trainers
you know we don't even wanna you know
you've grown up from us
yeah yeah i'm fat so what plenty of guys
want to get with me i'm still fine i'm
still yeah absolutely there are women
who are still on an ego trip they're fat
and they're ugly but they still have men
climbing over each other to compete for
their attention and stuff and like yeah
yeah um
yeah i i suppose that is true um
i guess it's just what i was thinking at
that time uh or to start this is is that
uh i do think that you can take a
philosophical attitude about sexuality
and about beauty and
that's really
actually something that
i would encourage young women to
get interested in and and to really live
the exam in life in this way like
for that that woman who wrote her essay
about being a cam girl like at least she
was talking about these experiences and
in some ways she was more developed than
me like sexually of course like i mean
she had she had
at least had these experiences and
talked about these issues with other
people uh that i hadn't and and like
just in that way having conversations
with other people um having these other
experiences like you that is part of
becoming an intellectual like uh
and um
being able to converse
about about certain issues like rather
than looking down your nose at somebody
who might engage in those behaviors like
um
that isn't helpful and and i might have
learned something from actually becoming
a better like closer to her if i if i
had gotten to know her more yes i knew i
knew a woman also uh briefly who uh
worked as a stripper when she was in
college and um
i i
i again like i wish i would have
made the effort to get to know her a
little bit more because i might have
just learned about that right that
aspect of life um
that aspect of human sexuality and and
embracing like feminine sexuality like
in ways that i
was too uncomfortable to talk to talk
about at that time so yeah and i do
think that can be part of intellectual
development um just getting to know
people with different experiences and
it can be kind of
you know you might think
but like look you're getting the
fundamental implicit point of this whole
video is don't let your sexuality be a
limit to or an obstacle to your
intellectual development yes your
emotional development so that is the
point yeah like you live in a body we
all do yes you know yeah
definitely yeah but it is but for the
vast majority of people it is they never
get over it they never deal with the
building blocks of what it is to have a
meaningful life or what it is just be a
human being on planet earth they never
get past it they never get over it i
think middle age and old age are very
miserable for those people that's all
they learn how to do you know what what
is old age going to be like for emily
ratakowski
you know emily ratakowski has just
published her [ __ ]
autobiography her political essay
my body my body right and i'm sorry but
emily radakowski her whole fate has been
shaped by the the way her body looks and
the way her face looks she also has a
very striking face her facial features
are very clearly delineated and everyone
told her i forgot starting when she was
14 years old or something right people
told her look you can have a career in
my life
right well guess what
that that didn't mean you couldn't
develop intellectually in 10 different
ways that doesn't mean you couldn't have
you know she'd be in a better position
than alexandria ocasio-cortez who
started a career as a waitress or
whatever you know doesn't mean you
couldn't have become a major political
leader or a major author
but she's a [ __ ] bimbo she's an idiot
i'm sorry look at any live interview any
unscripted interview she's done i don't
care how many [ __ ]
ghost writers she worked with in putting
that book together
if the book has a little bit of
intelligence i don't care watch any
interview with her she like everything
that's wrong with america is wrong with
emily radakowski she's a horrifying
glimpse into the you know mainstream
middle class american mind and she is a
pretty girl who cares about shoes and
clothes and that's it she like my point
being the fact that you made your living
out of your body didn't have to prevent
you from developing intellectually right
but it does for the vast majority of
people it provides the pretext or the
excuse for that and at the opposite
extreme so like you know i was friends
with this youtuber american unicorn
she was a virgin until marriage and she
let that ruin her life she was on the
super trad con you know a conservative
religious virgin telemanagement that
[ __ ] up her life like your sexuality
can screw up your life and like
commodifying your sexuality in that
sense can screw up your life
in in more ways than one it can be that
you're committed to being a virgin until
marriage then you drop out of college
get pregnant and raise kids the first
person who has sex with you and that
ruins your life instead you know so no i
mean the the the relationships you have
as i put it right at the very beginning
of of the uh the video letting someone
come into your life letting a man commit
your life and solve all your problems
yeah that's right i remember that's an
incredible temptation even if there's no
pornography involved there's no modeling
involved there's no they're not being an
actress you're just becoming a housewife
or whatever you have you know where
that's
and again there's no reason for that to
be all you are you could have all these
ambitions you could do all these you'd
be a housewife and you can still
develop yourself and you know
you can accomplish all kinds of great
things that's true and the vast majority
do not the vast majority let this be an
obstacle let this be a limit to their to
their learning and they shut down and
they remain fundamentally childish
stupid ignorant people
all their lives
yeah so to avoid that
well i
i did not live my life in an
intellectual way when i was a young
woman when i was 19 20 and 21. 21
i can imagine an alternate universe
where i would have really taken myself
seriously and and stuck to the kind of
high expectations that i had for
like
how i
how i behaved like in high school
when i was sober when i when i didn't
surround myself with people who were
doing drugs and so on like if i if i had
just stuck to some of these kind of um
good qualities of
how i how i live my life um
yeah i can imagine that i would have i
would have read a lot more and i would
have pushed myself more but also if if
people would have held me to higher
standards if my professors would have
like you said like encouraged me to
write at a level that i would feel
comfortable publishing this like how
many people are going to read this and
and uh yeah if if you think of yourself
as somebody who could become an author
one day or something who could
change the world in some way um
you know
your your your outlook on life your your
perspective on yourself and your
perspective on your role in the world
will change a lot um
so yeah that
that is the advice that i would have for
young women is to
uh
imagine that in the future you you you
know part of what you said in in one of
in your last uh
live stream about advice for young men
is like you can't part of your role as
an older person is to tell young people
what they can't imagine yeah and um so
yeah i feel like although i'm i'm not as
old as you like i do kind of
feel like i'm at a
some at a stage where i can say that
like you can't imagine the kind of
people that you'll know in 10 years you
can't imagine the type of person that
you'll be in 10 years or uh you can't
imagine the regrets that you might have
about how you're living your life right
now um
and and i mean that's part of the
tragedy of life is that we don't know
what we're going to regret but it's
better to regret that
you you tried your best to become a more
intellectual person
um it's better to regret that you you
you didn't go out and party or something
you know that you didn't uh waste your
time
when you're younger playing video games
if you if you have regrets about your
life when you're a youth that are
related to that like oh
i wish i would have
wasted more time i wish i would have
gone to more clubs or something like
it's it's way better to be in a position
where you actually learn something and
uh you push yourself intellectually you
know i think it's true probably
something i overlook about myself
was just the assumption that i was gonna
be an author and i remember talking to
other young people that went this was
the era before youtube when you know i
didn't assume i was making monologues so
i was going to be writing
but you know
like once you have that view of what it
is to be an adult that being an adult
means being an author well it doesn't
matter that much what your major is in
university because whatever it is you're
preparing to be an author right like
you're preparing to write you're going
to change the world through writing or
share whatever you you have to share
to speak for yourself you know as a
writer you know
um
you know but i mean to give an example
for a long time i considered going into
law getting a law degree which is
incredibly boring but if you're thinking
about being a writer if you're like yeah
but really i'm gonna write books that
you know that's what really matters like
however it doesn't matter if i work at
7-eleven or starbucks or work as a
lawyer but i'm trying to cultivate
myself to be an author that's ultimately
what really matters yeah and then also
you've been with me in person i consider
going to business school and getting a
degree in business but i'm not doing
that instead of being an author like i'm
still thinking of myself as a creative
writer if someone is doing research
someone who's learning and someone who's
writing you know yes so i already had
that idea like at 15 or 16 or something
and then in an unseen way that guides
all my development and yeah you know i
think the tragedy is there are a lot of
women who just regard themselves as a
piece of ass there are a lot of women
they don't think of themselves as an
author it's never crossed their minds
yeah exactly that their intellectual
development right and and you know i
think the flip side of that there are
now there are
some men some men think of themselves as
a piece of ass but i would say what's
much more common is that men think of
themselves that way in terms of money
where men reduce themselves to just how
much money they are and how much they
pay for things including paying for the
attention of women where they've reduced
themselves to being a kind of economic
atom and economic cog in the system yeah
you know as opposed to saying well no
you can earn money lots of different
ways you can work in real estate and be
an intellectual you know as mentioned
you can be a stripper and be an
intellectual you can develop yourself as
an author you can change the world and
you change who you are too you grow and
you you know yeah but
yeah i know we're having this
conversation after the death of the
publishing industry so that model you
know if you take the word author in its
dictionary sense i can't say that
anymore now you have to talk more
broadly about being some kind of
creative artist some kind of content
creator you know
uh
but still but still i really do think
that
you know there are some comments
maybe everybody's not smart enough
somebody says
some people just aren't very bright
though drinking and partying may be all
they can manage unless things
okay so no i don't believe it for an
instant going in yeah i think we all
have something to offer and i
when i was younger what i was told about
being a professor is that it can be uh
demanding because there's this idea of
publish or perish like you have to
publish um but i do think that this is
something that is healthy for people to
continue to challenge themselves as to
to
think of themselves as people who
publish something who are who are trying
to make something um throughout
throughout their life i mean uh doing
something with their time
even if it's just on a small scale of
like in your community if you're if
you're making some effort to
but look sorry i i just made a video the
day before yesterday or something about
tana mongeau
the fact that all taniman joe can
appreciate today
is
getting drunk and partying that does not
mean that's all she's capable of
appreciating vegan she used to care
about veganism and like talk about it
like that what i totally think i totally
think she's someone of above average
intelligence which is scary but it's the
[ __ ] truth
but you live that way long enough you
lower your expectations yourself long
enough and this seems like the only
thing you can enjoy same with video game
edition there are people who say oh well
they're too stupid to enjoy anything but
playing video games because that's all
they know how to enjoy they don't know
how to get the value out of you know
research and writing all kinds of other
humanitarian work or climbing a mountain
or anything else you know but like they
don't they don't know how to enjoy the
life of the mind is really what i'm
emphasizing here rather than climbing a
mountain
um you know but no i don't believe that
about tana mongeau and i don't believe
that about uh emily ratajkowski
i don't think she's born dumb she's
someone who made the wrong choices she
chooses to be dumb and now this is who
she is and this is all she can enjoy and
she still could change in the next 10
years the next 20 years it'll take time
and hard work you know what i mean and
i'd encourage you to emily if you're
watching this now you know but you you
know it's not too late to take life
seriously and really live with that you
know with the sorrow and the joy that
comes with the life of the mind and take
that on but no i don't believe that for
an instant you know and and my view of
the world where i say like 90 percent of
people are fundamentally stupid and
malign fundamentally stupid enough bad
intentions are malicious it's even more
tragic when you understand that what i'm
saying is that they choose this people
choose to live this way the same way
they choose to play video games the fact
that you play video games like the only
thing you can enjoy doing is playing
video games you were not born this way
you're not it's not because you're
mentally disabled right and then you get
into a cycle a self-justifying cycle of
uh you know the meaningless
a meaningless life you know yeah you
want to say those to wrap it up babe i
mean you know i think i think we've said
it all yeah i think how would it be how
to be a woman according to most of them
um
that's funny i hadn't thought of how to
actually
end this now to conclude this video i
mean because it's something that i'm
still learning about and i'm i'm still
embracing you know as i get older like
my my feminine like being being a woman
what it means to be a woman and to
it it was interesting to me to hear you
say that you've you've never felt that
any woman that you've known has has
viewed history in the way that men have
that they've actually like been taking
on this role yeah um if they're going to
have a view on the war on afghanistan
kind of sympathizing actively put it
that way yeah right um so yeah i don't
think it's impossible for women to think
of themselves as active participants in
in history as it unfolds like i don't uh
and there are plenty of women in history
that we have to look up to um women that
uh you know involved with auntie go on
yeah
sorry but if you if you're keeping it
real the gentleman that's not true i'm
talking about your own life who are the
women in history you've looked up to you
haven't had anything i mean you were
saying that earlier
it's just why say the opposite of the
truth i mean you know okay it's true i i
do i haven't you personally you don't
you don't think this is hillary clinton
or something like you know but i'm
thinking about condoleezza rice you
don't look up to her
you know you don't i mean you haven't
grown up with women whether
now from the past i don't think you do
just just keep me real i'm not faulting
you i'm saying you know look i had to
name my daughter and so when i was with
my my ex-wife and she gets it was a
planned pregnancy even wasn't an
accidental person we planning to pray
and give pride it's like okay we have a
list of really great names for a boy
that are historical figures right
and then like for a girl it's like uh i
guess it's just one like it was so hard
to come up with it you know female
intellectuals in history you look up to
or think positive there aren't a lot
like i'm we're just keeping it real here
people and like you know i did i gave my
daughter a name i'm proud of the name i
gave her i'm happy with the name i gave
her but i didn't have 10 other names i
didn't have a list of really great names
from great historical figures it's like
okay i guess i could name her after this
one historical figure now i've used up
all my good female baby names you know
and they were like they're all these
different male names that's so we sort
of just joke around today about good
names for good news real boy and stuff
yeah no i'm just saying you haven't
lived up with with plenty you haven't
grown up with plenty of female
uh i guess positive
you grew up with britney spears okay
all right fine i guess
but you know figures from history that i
was told about you know somebody like
rosa parks or somebody like harriet
tubman like you know that was that was
the kind of influence that i had when i
was around yeah okay okay so let's see
okay okay rosa parks was she an
intellectual
was she a great writer was she an
inspiring leader no
not harriet tubman saying no
like it's just keep it real no you don't
grow up with female role models look up
to you don't you know or there are
incredibly few
yeah again maybe there are some
interesting exceptions to the rule i
mean you know look at this shelf of
books you know who do we have of any of
the authors of any of these books
you know who do you have to look up to
who's female there i think there's one
book written by a woman on our bookshelf
and it sucks
i think my angela was a communist right
at least at least a sympathizer anyway
don't get into people's books you
haven't read i mean if you haven't read
it don't comment yeah um
yeah so i
but you know i just say no i mean rosa
parks it's not an exception you know
you know i'm sorry i mean mary curie is
not an exception none of these people
you know
none of these people are tolstoy none of
these people are mohandas gandhi and you
know i'm a critic of gandhi but no none
of these people are major intellectuals
and creative right and you know people
who
you know change the world by living the
life of the mind they're not
you know now look my ex-girlfriend one
of them
um she wanted to be a painter and i
remember her going through these
different magazine articles she was
actively looking for examples of
successful female painters
and so this is interesting this ends up
being a kind of counter story she found
this article and it was like
the next generation of modern artists
female modern artists in the 21st
century and it was someone who had done
like a survey mission who are the hot
new female painters painters and
sculptors
uh in the arts today and then 10 years
later did a retrospective saying where
are they now
and the article she wrote it's a female
author was like completely condemning
these women and saying well guess what
it seems like the vast majority of women
just don't care about anything except
getting pregnant having kids and like
the majority of the women who were in
the exhibition 10 years ago they found a
wealthy husband and got pregnant to have
kids and they don't produce art anymore
and they don't take it seriously and
like here are the one or two exceptions
and here's what they're doing it's like
well and like the article concluded
because basically none of them were
doing important new art or even devoting
their time to art anymore some of them
were still doing it as a side project so
well guess what i guess the reason why
in our generation there aren't like
major inspiring female intellectuals in
painting is that there really aren't
women who make this their priority and
dedicate their lives to it the way men
do men who say like no nothing like this
is my art this is what matters this is
what i'm giving 110.
and i remember anyway just remember that
was her situation she was someone again
she'd been a feminist and she'd been
involved in women's studies
but she she had to admit she's like well
all of the artists she looks up to or
anyone just they're all men
you know okay and another thing you know
because i'm vegan it is also striking to
me that like so few people in history
generally but also
we're vegan like i don't have a lot of
positive vegan role models it's a female
when you were doing ancient history of
veganism stuff yeah it's all male
authors and male 1 yeah that's true so
yeah yeah i hope i hope this changes i
mean it is one of the aspects
when you do if you want to have kids i
mean it does take up
i was just challenging you about the
casualness of saying and passing
are there
like are there like i feel i've been in
a couple of the fields that are
exceptions like buddhist philosophy
buddhist studies there are some major
females
keep it real and no it's part of your
problem like there weren't i mean who
you going to look up to emily radekowski
you're going to look up to uh christina
aguilera christina aguilera who was on
tv during your childhood that's your
generation who the [ __ ] are you going to
look up to you know
and who right now there were women who
would say look up to aoc alexandria
cause of course she's a [ __ ] knitwit
she's an idiot the women who are the
leaders of black lives matter are idiots
and they have published books and their
books prove that they're idiots so you
know like this is so here are your
choices oh wow inspiring female
intellectuals and authors there should
be there should be tons of them you know
what i'm saying but no but and by the
way again i'm not saying there was zero
the field i worked in when i was a
scholar of buddhism there were important
uh women in that field it's an unusual
field that way you can be in fields that
are that are dominated by women yeah but
yeah it's it's scarce my point is no it
is rare okay
does having a family preclude women from
doing meaningful intellectual work yes
it shouldn't
that's part of
what you know
it's not just me a lot of women are
conflicted about this issue and yeah i i
had a newborn baby in my arms and i was
swinging her back and forth to put her
to sleep and it was very muscular work
with that particular baby and i was
listening to thucydides history of the
peloponnesian war on my headphones and
i heard the whole of herodotus the
histories as an audiobook you know
actually
i was actually reading through cities on
paper listening to erotic as an
audiobook i was developing
intellectually
and when the baby fell asleep and i put
her in the crib i did bench press i did
push ups i did upright row i was working
out physically i was working
intellectually and i was a full-time
stay-at-home parent i was taking care of
the baby i was cleaning everything at
night i was cooking for my wife often my
wife would be breastfeeding the baby and
then i'd go and cook in the kitchen yeah
you can be an intellectual raising a kid
or you can take it as a [ __ ] excuse
to have a meaningless self-indulgent
life that's what most people do i mean
most most for most men it's money for
most men it's like well i earn money so
that's it so now i have excuse i can
turn my brain off i can have no other
aspirations but yeah for a lot of women
it's not for some women it is money but
for a lot of women it's not even money
you know
okay isil i do appreciate you
challenging me on that i it could be
just the kind of influence that i had in
school that
oh yeah say it again and again no we all
repeat this oh there are lots of
positive female no
like let's let's look sorry there's some
other field where it's not about that's
not about you know uh
uh gender but you know like some people
say oh well there are lots of positive
atheist role models and i would say
really like you know like look around
who are the atheist leaders or something
you know male and female there were
other things where i would challenge
like oh well you know let's let's really
think about it you know what i mean yeah
no i think that's good and that's that's
important so we'll question that
look everything
that is a challenge is also an
opportunity okay
and look being born
a six foot three scary looking dude is a
challenge it has disadvantages and i
could be self-pitying and talk about the
ways in which it's [ __ ] up my life and
yeah i've had to deal with police coming
at me a certain kind of way i really
have as a young man as a teenager i've
had to deal with all kinds of hostility
and being treated like [ __ ] by
authority figures you know being a scary
looking big white dude it's a challenge
it's also an opportunity and i mean look
i think the fundamental message coming
out of this this video is if you're born
female if you're living your life female
you know look at those challenges and
appreciate the extent to which there are
opportunities being a parent is an
opportunity yeah having a raising a
child being a housewife is an
opportunity being a stripper or being a
camp girl is an opportunity but also you
know going to university hitting the
book studying challenging yourself to
reach a level of excellence challenging
yourself not to just be a passenger in
history but to be in the driver's seat
taking an active rather than a passive
role you know holding yourself to
standards where you know
you know
not everyone gets to be napoleon in this
life you know one person in a billion
gets to be napoleon but you know you get
to be the napoleon of your field you get
to be the protagonist of your life you
know within your small life within the
small sphere where you're going to
influence things you are going to be the
most important person you are going to
have you know power and influence and
consequence for the people the people
around you you know so you know take
seriously this is your one life this is
your one opportunity
whether you become a librarian or you
become a stripper whether you're
celibate until marriage or you you
literally become a prostitute you know
all the temptations all the advantages
and all the opportunities presented by
the body you happen to be born into you
have to treat them as positive
opportunities to live a meaningful life
and not let them be an obstacle to the
life of the mind not let them be an
excuse for you to live a fundamentally
self-indulgent life in which you
dissipate the intellectual potential
that every single one of you was born
with even if you exercise that potential
so little at this point that you don't
know just how far you can take it you
don't know yet what it is that you're
capable